Ikki

}}

* 8 in Books Two and Three
* 11 in Book Four: Balance

* Teacher

* Air Temple Island
* Tenzin's family

}}Ikki was the second child and youngest daughter of Tenzin and Pema, and the granddaughter of Avatar Aang and Katara. She had three siblings: an older sister named Jinora and two younger brothers named Meelo and Rohan. The entire family resided on Air Temple Island, near Republic City. Ikki was fun-loving, energetic, and extremely talkative.Throughout The Legend of Korra.

History

Early life

Ikki was born in 163 AG on Air Temple Island to Tenzin and Pema. She grew up as one of only four airbenders in the world, the others being her father, her sister, and her younger brother, Meelo.

170 AG

Korra's training

, after she pestered her father relentlessly by asking if they were there yet.]]

In the fall of 170 AG, Ikki and her family traveled on Oogi to the Southern Water Tribe compound to meet Korra, who was due to start her airbending training with Tenzin; during the journey, Ikki relentlessly asked her father if they had arrived. Once they arrived at the compound and stepped off their bison, Ikki jumped in between her grandmother and Jinora, interrupting their conversation regarding Zuko's mother, and began to ask Katara many questions quickly and excitedly, much to Jinora's annoyance. Ikki and her family soon left the South Pole continent, as Tenzin had only come to inform Korra of his duties in Republic City which made it impossible for him and his family to stay at the compound. Ikki and her family subsequently returned to Air Temple Island.

Later, Avatar Korra escaped from her tribe and traveled to Republic City. Once there, she was able to convince Tenzin to allow her to stay on his island so she could learn airbending. Following this decision, Ikki and her siblings were excited and hugged Korra, celebrating her stay.

Ikki tried to offer a frustrated Korra advice during her airbending training, but this did not help, as Korra's failures continued to mount.When Korra snapped at Tenzin and called him a "terrible teacher", she and Jinora comforted their father by hugging him as Meelo mimicked Korra by destroying more of the airbending gates.

 aiding Korra with her airbending training.]]

Sometime later, while Ikki and Jinora helped Korra out with her airbending training, the siblings asked her how much the approaching Mako drove her crazy, which prompted the Avatar to launch them into the air using earthbending, though the siblings landed softly using airbending, giggling behind Korra.

When Tarrlok interrupted Korra, Tenzin, and his family's dinner on Air Temple Island, Ikki asked Tarrlok why he had three ponytails and why he smelled like a lady. She subsequently declared him "weird" and, after being called "precocious" by Tarrlok, glared at him with an expression similar to the one Pema had previously given Tenzin. When Tarrlok eventually left, Ikki waved and cheerfully said, "Bye bye, ponytail man!", much to his annoyance.

Later, Ikki and her brother Meelo pretended to drive a fancy new Satomobile, which Tarrlok had sent to Korra as a gift to persuade her to join his anti-Equalist task force. Ikki loudly made horn noises and told Tenzin to get out of the way, as they were "driving". Soon after, when Tarrlok's messenger brought Korra an invitation to a gala at City Hall, Ikki was playing Pai Sho with Jinora nearby. Ikki later attended the gala with her family and Korra that night.

 on brewing a love potion to win Mako's heart.]]

While Korra, Ikki, and Jinora were out feeding the winged lemurs, the sisters asked the Avatar about her "magical romance" with Mako, as they had seen her out more often. Korra initially denied the existence of this romance but soon afterward asked them for advice on how to approach the firebender if she were hypothetically interested in him. Jinora told Korra of a historical saga she had read that involved jumping into a volcano. Ikki, however, quickly rejected her sister's idea and told Korra to brew a love potion of rainbows and sunsets, to which Korra replied, "The volcano is starting to make more sense to me now". Pema, who had overheard the conversation, offered the Avatar her own advice, which the girls considered the best alternative.

, Asami, and Bolin the grand tour of Air Temple Island.]]

Afterward, when Mako, Bolin, and Asami Sato moved into the Air Temple, she greeted them excitedly and declared Pabu cute. She subsequently gave them the "Grand Tour". When Bolin asked her questions about the island, she answered very rapidly without hesitating, causing the trio to blink in astonishment. Later, while showing Asami to her new room, Ikki, unaware of the present circumstances, told her about Korra's crush on Mako, much to Korra's horror. After reaching Asami's room, Korra slammed the door shut on Ikki, which in turn caused Ikki to become quite furious herself.

The morning after finding Korra, who had been captured by Tarrlok, Tenzin found Ikki, Jinora, and Meelo lying in bed with Pema. When they woke up, Ikki automatically jumped into her father's arms, telling him that she was scared and afraid Korra was not going to come back. Tenzin apologized for her being scared and reassured her that everything was going to be fine.

The Anti-bending Revolution

Later, during the Equalists' attack on Air Temple Island, Ikki and her family were told by Lin Beifong that they needed to stay calm and move indoors. When Pema started screaming, Ikki asked her mother what is wrong. After fighting off some of the Equalists, Lin was knocked out by the Lieutenant's electrified kali sticks. The Equalists were about to capture Lin, but Ikki rode in on an air scooter along with her siblings, and together they were able to save Lin and fight off the rest of the Equalists.

.]]

When Tenzin arrived at the island, he was frightened by the fact that his children had battled the Equalists. Lin reassured him by telling him that his kids had saved her and that he had taught them well. Tenzin was told to go be with his wife, who was delivering her baby. After a few minutes, the kids joined their parents and new brother, Rohan. The siblings jumped onto the bed and Ikki introduced Rohan to herself and her siblings. She expressed that they had a great family and that they were happy that he was a part of it. This poignant family moment was shattered when Korra told them that more Equalist airships were coming. Ikki asked her dad, "Everything's not going to be fine, is it Daddy?"

As the Equalists continued to approach, Ikki and her family fled to preserve the airbender race by riding away on their sky bison.

.]]

However, Ikki and the rest of her family were eventually captured by Amon, who intended to rid the world of airbending during the Equalist victory rally. Avatar Korra and Mako swiftly came to the airbenders' aid, and Korra led Ikki and the rest of her family out into the hallways of the Pro-bending Arena. Tenzin led his children to find Pema and Rohan in prison while Korra and Mako defeated Amon.

Once Republic City was safe again, Ikki returned to Air Temple Island with her family. She witnessed her boisterous Uncle Bumi enter the harbor with the rest of the United Forces, much to her excitement and Tenzin's displeasure. In an attempt to have Korra's bending restored by Katara, Ikki and her family accompanied the Avatar to the Southern Water Tribe. When Katara was unable to heal Korra, Ikki stood by her family, who tried to convince Korra that everything would be all right. After Korra's own bending was restored by Aang, Ikki witnessed Korra use energybending to restore Lin Beifong's earthbending.

171 AG

Journey to the air temples

Six months after the events of the Anti-bending Revolution, Ikki was seen on Air Temple Island having an air scooter race with Korra and her siblings. She was in the lead for most of the race until Korra used the Avatar State to pass her in the final stretch. After her uncle declared Korra the winner, Ikki became indignant, claiming that Korra's use of the Avatar State was unfair. Korra simply blew a raspberry at her. She then told her father about wanting to get lightning bolts tattoos instead of the traditional Air Nomad arrows, an idea that was met by her sister's rejection. This almost escalated into a fight between the two, before being broken up by their father. When Korra told her and her siblings about the Glacier Spirits Festival, she cheered along with her siblings.

's book despite not liking to read.]]

Ikki later traveled with her family to the Southern Water Tribe for the festival, and later to the Southern Air Temple, where she was greeted kindly by the Air Acolytes residing there. However, after seeing Jinora receiving a book as a present by one Air Acolyte, she grew quickly jealous. Ikki took the book away from her elder sibling, claiming it to be her gift. Jinora argued that she did not even like to read, but Ikki just stuck her tongue at her. She later raced around the temple's sanctuary with her brother on an air scooter after her father had left them unattended whilst taking Jinora to the Avatar sanctuary in the temple. Soon after, Ikki was teased by Jinora and Meelo, causing her to run off, which prompted a search led by her father, aunt, and uncle.

 return to the temple where their respective siblings were waiting for them.]]

Ikki was later found the following morning by her father in a cave with four flying bison calves, with whom she was having breakfast. Her father's teachings in mind, she wanted to say a blessing before eating, which ended in her dissing her siblings. After she finished, she noticed her father and allowed him to join her at her makeshift table. She explained that the four young bison were her new siblings, an idea that appealed to Tenzin. Ikki was surprised that her father wanted new siblings, as she adored the beautiful and sweet Kya, as well as the funny Bumi, though Tenzin countered that the same could be said about Jinora and Meelo. Ikki played with the bison calves, entertaining them with her airbending, though when the bison's parents returned, seeing the family reunited, she realized that even though being part of a family is not always easy, it was worthwhile as family would always be there for one another. Together with her father, she returned to the temple, where she was hugged by her relieved mother. Jinora and Meelo apologized to her for having teased her, and after having accepted their apology, the siblings ran off to play a game of airball. A few days later, she witnessed in awe as Meelo orchestrated a ring-tailed winged lemur air show.

At the Eastern Air Temple, Ikki listened in boredom to the itinerary her father had come up with for that day; it included visiting a lot of the temple's ancient places, which she dismissed as being "old things". Her attitude changed completely after Korra arrived at the temple, and she excitedly ran over to greet and hug her. However, as the Avatar brought the family up to speed with the current events they had missed due to their vacation, Ikki just stared at her in shock.

s for the first time.]]

After it became apparent that Korra needed to cross over to the Spirit World, Ikki tried to assist her and her father. When they were meditating on one of the grassy fields of the temple, Ikki used her airbending to operate a horn, while Meelo rang a ceremonial bell. The attempt was unsuccessful and the group moved on to another place to try another. Back at the temple, Ikki was shocked when she overheard her father confess that he had never been to the Spirit World before. When Jinora told her dragonfly bunny spirit friends that it was all right to reveal themselves, Ikki was excited to witness the spirits, though she mistakenly referred to them as just bunnies, and immediately chased after them so they could play together.

Ikki was playing with her elder brother in the gardens of the Eastern Air Temple when Tenzin, Korra, Kya, and Bumi arrived back from their trip. While she was initially pleased to see them return, she became saddened upon learning that her sister's spirit had become trapped in the Spirit World.

Harmonic Convergence

's spiritual projection, Ikki deemed her sister's appearance to be "beautiful".]]

Before Harmonic Convergence, Ikki returned home with her mother and her two brothers. From the balcony of the island tower, she watched as the Dark Avatar set out to destroy Republic City, and later witnessed the arrival of Korra's astral projection. As Unalaq was about to corrupt the projection of Korra, Ikki spotted the arrival of Jinora's spiritual projection through a telescope, deeming her sister's appearance to be "beautiful". She continued to watch as her sister helped Korra free Raava and defeat the Dark Avatar.

Post-Harmonic Convergence

Two weeks after Harmonic Convergence, Ikki was playing together with Meelo and Pabu when Bumi came running. She called for her father when Bumi inquired where he was. She listened with interest to her uncle's story about his airbending feats, though when he failed to prove his skill, she frowned and left him on the porch to follow the rest of her family inside to enjoy dinner. During the meal, however, Ikki looked on in shock when he did airbend.

The next day, Ikki suggested that Bumi's airbending abilities might have been dormant all along and that he was just a late bloomer, though the theory was disproven when she heard from Mako and Lin about another person having gained airbending the previous night. She later set out with her siblings to find her father musing over the resurfacing of airbending and asked him whether or not the new airbenders were their family. Upon hearing that in a way all airbenders were family, she pointed out that she was not interested in sharing her room with anyone as she was fond of her own personal space. Tenzin reassured Ikki she did not have to, but she was going to have to get used to not being one of the only airbenders around anymore.

 were mad upon learning that they would stay on Air Temple Island while Jinora traveled to Ba Sing Se with Tenzin and Team Avatar.]]

When Asami arrived that evening at Air Temple Island in the Future Industries airship the team would be using to travel toward Ba Sing Se, Ikki and Meelo excitedly created air scooters to take a tour of the transport. However, when they learned that they would need to remain at the temple while Jinora would accompany the group to the Earth Kingdom, they became upset and demanded an explanation from their parents. Kya eased their jealousy by pointing out that they were needed on the island to provide guidance for any new airbenders in the city. The prospect of being a teacher pleased Ikki and she dropped the issue. When the team embarked on their journey, Ikki waved them off.

While Ikki and Meelo were helping the new airbenders get acclimated to Air Temple Island, they were approached by an airbender who said his name was Yorru and had heard that the island was where they should go. After the stranger demonstrated his abilities, Ikki excitedly called for Pema and Kya, saying they "got another one". That night, a restless Ikki caught "Yorru" sneaking around Tenzin's study, informing him that only her father could be in there. She questioned him as to what he was reading and learned that it was a poem written by the legendary Guru Laghima. Kya soon entered the room, telling Ikki that she needed to be in bed. The young girl complied, saying good night to the airbender before leaving.

The next day, Ikki traveled with Meelo, Kya, and Pema to the Northern Air Temple with the airbenders. She assisted in the trainees' obstacle course by feeding watermelons into a cannon which Meelo shot out with airbending. After the course, a frustrated Tenzin left Ikki and Meelo in charge of teaching the airbenders.

Later, Ikki went with the airbenders, sans her father, when they found out through Bumi that Jinora had been captured. After helping to round up two bison at her uncle's request, they made their way to a bison rustlers' camp. Ikki helped the charge by giving two airbenders a lift on an air scooter, enabling them to attack a rustler. After the group freed Jinora, Kai, and some bison calves, Ikki rested against one of their bellies.

 were gathered in a courtyard of the Northern Air Temple by the Red Lotus to use as leverage to get to Korra.]]

Upon the arrival of the Red Lotus at the temple, Ikki was found by her father in order to evacuate the temple. However, before they could reach the bison stables, they found their path blocked by Zaheer and were lead to a courtyard where Ming-Hua and Ghazan had gathered all the other airbenders as well. Ikki managed to escape when Tenzin blew their three captors back. Although they managed to reach the stables, the bison took off without them after they got spooked by one of P'Li's combustion attacks, leaving them at the mercy of the firebender.

Ikki and the other occupants of the temple were taken by P'Li to a series of caves, where they were held captive by Red Lotus sentries, restrained to the floor by platinum chains. At Jinora's gesture, Ikki yelled out to the guards that she was thirsty as part of a plan to take the keys to their shackles from him. When the guards caught them beginning their escape, they were attacked by the approaching Team Avatar. With the men defeated, they were all freed and left the cave with Ikki and her siblings running toward Tenzin and hugging him. As Korra dueled Zaheer, Ikki and the other airbenders followed Jinora into a circle and helped bend up a tornado, freeing Korra and allowing her to slam Zaheer to the ground. The Avatar, however, had been substantially weakened by a metallic poison, leaving her in a perilous state. Ikki watched in worry as Suyin tried to bend the substance out, but was soon left smiling as Korra was saved upon completion of the task.

Two weeks later on Air Temple Island, Ikki waited with her family, the Beifongs, Lord Zuko, and President Raiko as Asami wheeled out a debilitated Korra. She offered to help push the wheelchair and corrected Meelo about the smell of "shoe trees" inside the temple, saying they were actually sandalwood. They were helped up the stairs to Jinora's ceremony by means of an earthen ramp by Lin. Inside, Ikki sat in the front row and watched as her sister's tattoos were revealed and she was anointed as an airbending master.

174 AG

, and Meelo were tasked by Tenzin to track down Korra and bring her home.]]

Together with her family, Ikki attended the grand reopening of Republic City's Central City Station, where she played around with Pabu, who was sitting on her shoulder, while President Raiko gave a speech and Asami cut the ribbon. Afterward, she returned to Air Temple Island together with her family, Prince Wu, Asami, Lin Beifong, Mako, and the presidential couple. During dinner, she asked Meelo why he thought Korra would no longer recognize him and was unimpressed by his idea that he had become unrecognizable by growing up. When an Air Acolyte notified the gathered group of the arrival of a ship from the South, she joined everyone else on the dock to greet Korra, who was scheduled to arrive. She happily rubbed Naga's belly, who had flopped on her back upon arrival, though she stopped the activity in shock when it became apparent that Korra had left the Southern Water Tribe six months prior, leaving everyone to wonder about her whereabouts. Ikki, Jinora, and Meelo were later tasked by Tenzin to track down Korra and bring her to Republic City. When their father stressed the importance of the task and asked if he could count on them, Ikki and her sister glared at Meelo when he questioned their reliability.

Searching for Korra

The next day, Ikki and her two siblings prepared Pepper to leave on their quest. As she was loading the last of their luggage onto the bison's saddle, Meelo airbent a bag in her face, prompting her to give chase to her brother. Overhearing her mother express her worry about the three siblings embarking on a journey without adult supervision, Ikki tried to ensure her mother that they would be fine, referring to Aang and his friends, who had been around her and her sibling's ages when they had been traveling the world. Ikki hugged her mother and youngest brother goodbye before jumping onto Pepper, who flew them out of Republic City.

 telling her to be quiet, as she prevented the elder from concentrating.]]

As they stopped at a stupa atop a mountain near a village so Meelo could use the bathroom and Jinora could meditate in an attempt to locate Korra, Ikki told her sister to relay her greeting to the Avatar if she found her. Seconds later, she inquired if Jinora had been able to successfully make contact, before angrily asking what was taking so long. She sighed in defeat as she was told to go play with the spirits as she was breaking Jinora's concentration. Upon Meelo's return, she informed her brother that Jinora's "spirity powers" were broken, rendering her unable to track down the Avatar. As Meelo stated that he was going into the nearby town to find out if anyone had seen Korra, Ikki readily agreed that it sounded like a good plan. However, Meelo told her to be silent, minimizing her help to carrying the picture of Korra he had drawn. Taking in the lifelike portrait of the Avatar, Ikki commented that she never knew he could draw, receiving the answer that there were a lot of things she did not know about her brother.

In town, Ikki showed the picture to an old woman, who knew nothing about the Avatar's whereabouts, though thought Meelo was cute, pinching his cheeks. Ikki was promptly ordered by her embarrassed brother to forget about the encounter and the two siblings split to cover more ground. Their search turned out fruitless and the three siblings moved on to the next town, with the same results. During one of their other searches, Ikki discovered Meelo flirting with a girl and teasingly commented that he had found a girlfriend. Although her brother told her to leave them alone, she jumped down the roof she was sitting on and relayed that Jinora had been looking for him as they were going to move on. The trio made their way to a small fishing town, where they repeated their routine. Ikki enthusiastically came running when Meelo called out to his sisters that he had found Korra, though it was only her picture. When the fishmonger told the siblings that he did not know where Korra had gone to after posing for his picture, Ikki was blamed by Meelo for not pulling her weight during the mission. As her brother stormed off, she asked her sister if she also recalled when Meelo had been "nice and sweet", though Jinora could not remember such a time.

's soldiers, who believed she was there to spy on Earth Empire activities.]]

During their next midday stop, Ikki searched their luggage for the bag of food Pema had given them. When Meelo revealed that he had thrown it in the river so they would have to hunt for their meals, an irritated Ikki pointed out that vegetarians do not hunt, though was ignored by her brother. Releasing a scream of frustration, she stormed off into the surrounding woods. To release some tension, she imitated her siblings and airbent at the vegetation, inadvertently scaring a small sugar glider, who was enjoying a nut for breakfast. Ikki apologized to the creature and gave chase in an attempt to return its nut. However, she was distracted and hit a tree branch, which caused her to crash land on a clearing in the woods. As she realized the clearing was caused by the trees being cut, she was discovered and captured by two soldiers from the military of the Earth Empire.

Taken back to the soldiers' hideout, Ikki was tied to a chair and interrogated in regards to her reasons for having crossed the Earth Empire's borders. Explaining that she was not a spy, Ikki started on a fast-paced ramble about how she came to be there and in which she revealed that she was Tenzin's daughter. As the soldiers were attempting to please her, she was offered a macaroon, though Ikki recognized the food as being made by her mother. When asked about the whereabouts of her siblings, Ikki waved off the question, as she did not want to see them and preferred to hang out with the two men.

's soldiers, Ikki enlisted their help to track down Korra.]]

The three of them settled down to have a conversation with each other and when the soldiers lamented over being left behind by Kuvira, Ikki sympathized with them as she felt like her siblings constantly excluded her from any fun stuff. Pointing out that Jinora and Meelo would not let her help in their search for Korra, the soldiers offered to help her instead. Giving her a map, Ikki easily slipped her arms free of the ropes and indicated the route she had been traveling. When one of the soldiers noted that none of their troops had reported a sighting of the Avatar, Ikki asked about the Foggy Swamp, as no military seemed to be based there. Just as the soldiers were about to release her, emphasizing that she had a big heart and was a valuable member of her team, Meelo and Jinora barged in and knocked the soldiers out with their airbending. Peeved over the intervention, Ikki slipped completely free from her bonds and stated that she had everything under control, pointing out that she had recovered their bag of food and believed to know Korra's whereabouts. Before leaving the soldiers' house, she apologized to them on her siblings' behalf and left them each with one of Pema's self-made sweet buns with happy faces.

 due to working together as a team.]]

As Pepper flew over the Foggy Swamp, Ikki mused that she could see Korra retreating to a spiritual place like the swamp in order to heal herself. When Jinora could not sense Korra's presence, Ikki pleaded with her siblings to look around for a while longer, though to no avail. As Pepper was ordered to turn around, however, the bison was pulled down by vines, which Ikki saw as a sign that they were in the right place. Jinora continued to voice her skepticism as she was unable to sense Korra, though Ikki rebuffed the opposition by pointing out that Jinora had yet to sense Korra anywhere. Ikki and Meelo started another verbal battle with each other, during which he stated that he was tired of listening to her, though the argument was cut short when Jinora felt Korra's presence nearby. The siblings promptly worked together and found their way to the banyan-grove tree, where they happily reunited with the Avatar and explained that they could not have found her without working together. After being introduced to Toph Beifong, they implored her to return with them as she needed to stop Kuvira. They all returned to Toph's dwelling, where the siblings witnessed Korra purifying herself from the residual traces of mercury in her body before departing with her on their journey home.

 for being able to capture raw, emotional power in her painting.]]

En route, Ikki sat by and watched her brother grow excited about the prospect of Korra going to Zaofu to stop Kuvira. Arriving at the home of the Metal Clan, she and the others entered the city. Spending the night in the metal city, she was woken up when Kuvira announced over the communications system that Suyin had been arrested for an attempt on her life. Ikki declared she would accompany Korra, Opal, and Jinora on their attempts to reason with the army commander, though was told by her sister to remain behind and stay safe. Pleading to be allowed to help, she was told by Korra to stay with Huan and Baatar, as she could not risk any more people being captured. Under Huan's supervision, Ikki started painting and was complimented by the artist for managing to capture raw emotion on the canvas. However, their craft session was interrupted when Jinora called for help. Ikki and Meelo took off on Pepper, rescued Korra and the two airbenders, and left the city. In the air, Ikki and Jinora latched on to Opal to prevent her from diving down and help Suyin, Wei, and Wing, who were Kuvira's prisoners. Upon arriving at Air Temple Island, Ikki ran up to her parents and warmly hugged her father, receiving his praise over a job well done.

Defending Republic City

After President Raiko ordered a mandatory evacuation of Republic City due to Kuvira's imminent attack, Ikki retreated to her room with her siblings, sans Rohan, and mother to prepare their suitcases. After talking it over with her family, however, they all decided to stay, reasoning that Republic City was their city and it was going to need all the help it could get. Sharing a family hug with her father after Pema alerted him of their decision, Tenzin told Ikki, Jinora, and Meelo that they could help the other airbenders by monitoring the progress of the military of the Earth Empire from above.

 to be part of her airbender stealth team.]]

A week later, with the arrival of Kuvira's troops imminent, Ikki and the other airbenders gathered on rooftops from where they had an overview of the gathered United Forces troops and the direction from where Kuvira would arrive. She was shocked to see the approach of the Colossus and after witnessing it destroy the United Forces' battleships with the spirit energy cannon it carried, she retreated toward the Future Industries factory where the hummingbird mecha suits were being assembled. When she was not elected by Korra to be part of her stealth team of airbenders, Ikki was dismayed, though nonetheless accepted the decision without protest. She was later forced to run for her life, however, when Kuvira traced Baatar Jr.'s radio call toward the factory and blew it up with her spirit energy cannon.

Ikki managed to survive the explosion and emerged from the rubble with everyone else when Bolin lifted a large piece of concrete. While Asami and Varrick attempted to adapt the prototypes of the hummingbird mecha suits in Asami's office to get them airborne, she and the other benders faced Kuvira and her army in an attempt to stop them or at the very least, slow them down. On Meelo's urging, Ikki and the other airbenders equipped themselves with balloons filled with paint. Upon reaching the Colossus, they dropped the balloons on the suit's windows, momentarily obscuring its vision and enabling the earthbenders on the ground to tie down the suit's legs. As Bolin gave the signal, Ikki and the other airbenders blasted the suit with air currents in an attempt to topple it over. The suit managed to stabilize itself, however, forcing Ikki and the others to flee when Kuvira aimed her spirit cannon at them. Sitting dazed on the ground, Kai checked up on Ikki to see if she was all right before they all retreated to Asami's office, where a new plan was formed: the benders would relentlessly attack the Colossus to distract Kuvira and enable the two hummingbird mecha suits to land on the enormous machine and cut a hole in it without being crushed.

 from plummeting to the ground after she was rendered unconscious by narrowly missing a beam from the spirit energy cannon.]]

When Kuvira aimed her cannon at Korra, Ikki, her airbending family, Kai, Daw, and another female airbender worked together to form a tornado in their wake and swoop down on the weaponized arm of the suit, knocking it out of balance and distorting its aim. Although she managed to land somewhere safe with her brother, Ikki noticed that her father and sister were rendered unconscious and plummeted down after they narrowly missed being hit by the spirit energy cannon. Ikki soared down and plucked Jinora out of the sky, carrying her to safety atop a nearby roof, from where she saw that Meelo intercepted their father in time.

Ultimately, their diversion worked and while Korra, Mako, Bolin, Lin, and Suyin managed to infiltrate the enormous suit, Ikki made her way through the streets of the city with her family. Before they could reach a safe place, however, a wave of energy, caused by the firing of the spirit energy cannon inside Republic City's Spirit Wilds, bore down upon them and they were forced to flee inside the hall of a nearby building, where they all huddled down and Tenzin protected his children against the incoming smoke.

 for Republic City ended, Ikki hugged Korra along with everyone else.]]

As the smoke cleared out, Ikki followed her family to the heart of the Spirit Wilds, where now a new spirit portal was located. Realizing Korra and Kuvira were nowhere to be found, Ikki, Team Avatar, and their allies set out to search the area for the Avatar. Soaring around, Ikki surveyed the area from the sky, though to no avail. She was surprised to see all the spirits return a moment later and, when Korra supported Kuvira while emerging from the spirit portal, she was happy to see her friend again. After Kuvira was handcuffed and escorted away, Ikki hugged Korra, along with the rest of Team Avatar.

Ikki later attended the wedding between Varrick and Zhu Li at Air Temple Island. When the dance floor was opened during the dinner party, Ikki dragged a reluctant Huan onto it and started to excitedly hop up and down while holding his hands.

Sometime later, Ikki joined her family at the temporary evacuee camp that had formed on the outskirts of Republic City. She listened to Zhu Li handing out that day's instructions to all the volunteers but became distracted when Korra and Asami, having returned from their vacation to the Spirit World, entered the tent. Excited to see them again, she asked to tell her all about their adventure.

Some time later, Jinora and Ikki got into a fight after the latter accidentally tore a scroll. Tenzin explained the Air Nomad way of conflict mediation to his daughters by telling him a story about his teenage years; however, this only led to more fighting over the proper way to "cleanse the air" among the children.

Personality

Ikki was extremely curious with a hyperactive mind that seemed to race a mile a minute. She always had many questions for any situation, as everything was fascinating to her and her active imagination. She would not stop until she had answers to all of the mysteries in life. Energy and hyperactivity often accompanied her wilder moments of curiosity, which sometimes accidentally led to a point of bluntness, such as when she brought up Korra's affection for Mako to Asami, or spark irritation with others, such as when Jinora tried to ask Katara about Zuko's mother and Ikki interjected with a barrage of wild questions. Ikki's more impatient nature often conflicted with Jinora's calm and serious demeanor and Meelo's authoritarian attitude, leading to verbal conflicts. Despite this, she was quick to make friends with others and was willing to help those in need whenever she could.

During Mako, Bolin, and Asami's stay at the island, Ikki seemed to keep up well with Bolin's fast-paced and testy questions. She also demonstrated an impressive level of knowledge about Air Temple Island, even being able to cite how many trees there were on the island after only a moment's thought.

Despite her energetic personality, she could also take the time to reflect about her surroundings, concluding to insightful wisdoms about family love.

Abilities

 enabled her to melodiously play an instrument.]]

As an airbender in training, Ikki already demonstrated proficiency in airbending. She was capable of using an Air Nomad glider, able to generate enough of a breeze to start the training gates, and mastered the air scooter to the point of once outrunning her siblings and Korra in an air scooter race. She was able to defeat Equalists single-handedly during the raid on Air Temple Island. She was also capable of landing gently on the ground when catapulted into the air by Korra.

Ikki's control over the air currents was of such a level that she was capable of concentrating her bending enough to harmoniously play a horn. She also demonstrated the ability to glide with an airbender wingsuit.

Relatives

Appearances

Book Two: Spirits (神靈)

Book Three: Change (易)

Book Four: Balance (平衡)

Avatar Legends comics

Graphic novels

}}

Trivia

* Ikki is a Japanese male name with a few different meanings, though the most appropriate would be "radiance, shine, sparkle"; the literal meaning of the word is "riot, insurrection". Both translations attribute to Ikki's hyperactive tendencies.
** Ikki is also short for Tuulikki, a girl's name that means "little wind" in Finnish, in line with her being an airbender.
** Ikki also means "two" in various Turkic languages, which is in line with her being a second-born child.
* Her attire is the common clothing worn by young airbenders, much like Aang's clothing in Books One and Two.
** The two caps Ikki typically wore over her hair buns are snoods.DiMartino, Michael Dante; Konietzko, Bryan; Varney, Janet & Faustino, David (July 9, 2013). "The Spirit of Competition" commentary. Book One: Air Blu-ray.
* She mastered the air scooter, a move that was invented by her late grandfather, Aang.
* Ikki's bangs resemble Pema's.
* Ikki is one of three characters whose names are palindromes, the others being Appa and Kuruk.
* Ikki and her sister Jinora are the first pair of sisters to be seen or mentioned in The Legend of Korra and the second after Lo and Li in Avatar: The Last Airbender.
* Unlike her older sister, Ikki did not like reading books.

References

}}

ar:إيكي
ca:Ikki
de:Ikki
es:Ikki
fi:Ikki
fr:Ikki
he:איקי
id:Ikki
ms:Ikki
nl:Ikki
pl:Ikki
pt-br:Ikki
ru:Икки
Category:A to Z
Category:Airbenders
Category:Air Nation characters
Category:Characters
Category:Comics characters
Category:Graphic novel characters
Category:Legend of Korra characters
Category:Major characters (Legend of Korra)
Category:Minor graphic novel characters (Legend of Korra)
Category:Turf Wars characters
Category:United Republic characters