Jinora

}}

* 11 in Books Two and Three
* 14 in Book Four: Balance

* Avatar Korra's Spirit World guide

* Air Temple Island
* Tenzin's family

}}Jinora was the firstborn child and eldest daughter of Tenzin and Pema and granddaughter of Katara and the late Avatar Aang. She lived on Air Temple Island with her parents and her three younger siblings: Ikki, Meelo, and Rohan. Possessed of an avid interest in books and quiet in general, Jinora was the youngest known airbending master, the first of her generation, and had a natural affinity with spirits; prior to the reopening of the spirit portals, she was one of only a handful of humans who could communicate with and perceive spirits in the physical world. As a result, she became Avatar Korra's guide into the Spirit World. Sometime after 171 AG, she entered a romantic relationship with Kai.

History

Early life

Jinora was born to Tenzin and Pema in 160 AG on Air Temple Island. She grew up as one of only two airbenders in the world, until she was later joined by a sister, Ikki, when she was three, and a brother, Meelo, when she was five.

170 AG

Korra's training

 about Ursa's fate.]]

During the fall of 170 AG, Jinora and her family traveled on Oogi to the Southern Water Tribe compound to meet Korra, who was due to start her airbending training with Tenzin. Once they arrived, Jinora happily greeted her grandmother, Katara, and told her that she had been reading all about her old adventures and had been "dying" to ask her what happened to Zuko's mother. Katara began to explain, calling it "an incredible tale", but was interrupted by Ikki, which greatly annoyed Jinora. The next day, the ten-year-old and her family had to leave the South Pole to return to Air Temple Island, as Tenzin had only come to inform Korra about his duties in Republic City, which made it impossible for him and his family to stay at the compound.

After Avatar Korra ran away from her compound and traveled to Republic City, she finally convinced Tenzin to allow her stay on his island so he could teach her airbending. At this decision, Jinora and her siblings excitedly hugged Korra, celebrating her stay.

 skills to reactivate the airbending gates for Korra.]]

When Korra began her training, Jinora demonstrated the proper way to navigate through the spinning gates before speeding them up with a blast of air. She tried to offer advice to the Avatar, but ultimately Korra failed to make it to the other side. After destroying the training relic in a fit of frustration, the Avatar snapped at Tenzin, calling him a bad teacher and storming away. Jinora and Ikki responded by hugging and comforting their father as their little brother kicked around the charred and splintered remains of the gates, mimicking Korra.

At dinner that night, Jinora was reading a book when a frustrated Tenzin demanded that his children promise him that they would not grow into hot-headed teenagers like Korra, to which Jinora emotionlessly replied that she would make "no such promises" and continued to read her book.

While helping Korra out in her bending training, she and Ikki asked her about her personal feelings toward the approaching Mako, which prompted the embarrassed Avatar to launch them into the air with earthbending, though the girls used airbending to land gently, giggling afterward.

Jinora sat quietly at her family's dinner table as Councilman Tarrlok entered and offered Korra to join his task force. Jinora was playing Pai Sho with Ikki when the Council page showed up with an invitation for a gala in Korra's honor by Tarrlok. Along with her family, Jinora later attended the party.

 love advice by telling a violent historical saga.]]

After delivering fruits for the ring-tailed winged lemurs to eat, Jinora pressed Korra if she pursued her potential feelings for Mako, observing that they were spending "a lot of time together". While Korra hurriedly denied this, she asked what she could do, pretending for a second she was interested in him. Jinora gave Korra advice on how to approach Mako based on a historical saga she had read, namely how the heroine, while riding a dragon, burned down the entire country and jumped into a volcano. After Ikki's advice involving a love potion, the Avatar was more inclined to take Jinora's suggestion, believing that it made more sense. They were interrupted by an amused Pema, who had overheard their conversation. Jinora and her sister were surprised to learn that their father was in love with someone else before their mother. After Pema told them what she did to win Tenzin's heart, all three girls thought Pema's advice was the best alternative.

When Mako, Bolin, and Asami arrived on the island, she welcomed them and shared facts about the fire ferret species. She later showed Mako and Bolin to the boys' quarters.

The Anti-bending Revolution

 thanked Jinora and her siblings for their help.]]

When the island was attacked by Equalists, Jinora, along with Ikki and Meelo, battled the Equalists and successfully took them down after Lin Beifong was briefly incapacitated by the Lieutenant, all three showing impressive bending skills. Jinora was the first to attack, flying down into the midst of the Equalists using her glider and shouting at the chi-blockers to "stay away from [her] dad's ex-girlfriend". After the battle, Jinora and her siblings met their new baby brother. Jinora was curious if her parents had chosen a name yet and if not, if she could she name him. Her parents told the kids that their brother's name was Rohan. Soon enough, more Equalist airships started invading the island, so Jinora and her family tried to flee Air Temple Island to a safer location, in order to protect the last airbenders.

.]]

However, Jinora and the rest of her family were captured by Amon, who intended to publicly remove their bending and destroy the last airbenders at a rally in the Pro-bending Arena. Avatar Korra and Mako swiftly came to their aid, and Korra led Jinora and the rest of her family out into the hallways of the Pro-bending Arena. Tenzin led his children to find Pema and Rohan while Korra and Mako defeated Amon.

Once Republic City was safe again, Jinora returned to Air Temple Island with her family. She witnessed her boisterous uncle, Bumi, enter the harbor with the rest of the United Forces, much to Ikki's enjoyment and Tenzin's embarrassment. Jinora traveled with her family, as well as the rest of Avatar Korra's friends and family, to the Southern Water Tribe to have Katara attempt to restore Korra's bending. When Katara was unable to heal Korra, Jinora stood by her family, who tried to tell her it would be all right. Jinora witnessed Korra use energybending to restore Lin's earthbending and watched Tenzin praise Korra for her accomplishments as the Avatar.

171 AG

Journey to the air temples

's statue at the Southern Air Temple's sanctuary.]]

Six months after the revolution, Jinora competed with Ikki, Meelo, and Korra in an air scooter race, coming in third behind her sister and the Avatar. She later traveled with her family to the Southern Water Tribe for the Glacier Spirits Festival. Following Korra's decision to pursue spiritual training with Unalaq, Jinora left with Tenzin and the rest of her family to visit the Southern Air Temple. There, Jinora was fascinated upon entering the sanctuary, which is filled with statues of the past Avatars, and became even more amazed after seeing her grandfather's statue. Coinciding with Korra's mission in the South Pole to open its spirit portal, Jinora awoke in the middle of the night because of an unknown force that led her back to the sanctuary. While there, she discovered an interesting figure of Avatar Wan, whose statue was different from the others. As Korra's mission succeeded, the statue illuminated, amazing Jinora.

While playing air scooter with Meelo, their mother realized Ikki was not with them and asked about her whereabouts. After initially pretending she did not know Ikki, she admitted to teasing her sister, causing Ikki to run away. The next day, after her father returned with Ikki, Jinora apologized to her sister for teasing her. After Ikki readily accepted the apology, the siblings ran off to play a game of airball. A few days later, she witnessed in awe as Meelo orchestrated a ring-tailed winged lemur air show.

Guiding Korra

s that only she could see.]]

When their family vacation took Jinora to the Eastern Air Temple, she met and befriended several dragonfly bunny spirits that resided there, one of which she named Furry-Foot. Since she was the only one who could see them, she covered up her playtime with the spirits as "playing with imaginary friends" when her father came to get her to start a tour of the temple. However, before they could embark on their trip, Korra arrived at the temple, pleasantly surprising everyone. Jinora excitedly ran up to the Avatar to greet and hug her. However, as Korra brought the family up to speed with the current events they had missed due to their vacation, Jinora just stared at her in shock.

After it became apparent that Korra needed to cross over to the Spirit World, Jinora tagged along to several locations where she witnessed Korra and Tenzin meditating in unsuccessful attempts to cross over. As they were moving on from their second location, Jinora got distracted by the presence of her spirit friends. The spirits flew away into the thicket, prompting the young airbender to call after them to return. When Kya asked whom she was chasing, Jinora evaded the question and ran after her father and Korra, leaving Kya to her own suspicions.

Having returned to the air temple, Jinora was shocked to hear her father's confession that he had never been to the Spirit World before. When Korra emphasized her urgency to get to the Spirit World, Jinora was pushed by Kya to reveal her secret, namely that she had been conversing with spirits and as such knew where Korra needed to go in order to enter the Spirit World. To prove her claim, Jinora told her spirit friends that it was all right to reveal themselves, earning herself amazed praise from her family.

 reassured Jinora that Tenzin was not angry with her, merely jealous over her ability to connect with spirits in a way that he could not.]]

As they followed the spirits down to the lower areas of the temple, Jinora confided in her aunt that she believed her father was mad at her, though Kya reassured her that Tenzin was not mad at her, but was merely suffering from a bruised ego. Korra complimented Jinora's ability with spirits, but she stated it was nothing compared to having met the first Avatar. When Jinora learned that the Avatar is part spirit due to their connection with Raava, she realized why she had been drawn to Wan's statue at the Southern Air Temple during the winter solstice, though the coincidental timing of her actions with Korra's opening of the Southern spirit portal awed both girls.

The group followed the dragonfly bunny spirits to an ancient meditation circle. Jinora noted that the place held a lot of spiritual energy, though it had been corrupted. She witnessed Tenzin perform a cleansing ceremony. However, the ritual drew out a swarm of bat-like dark spirits that promptly attacked them. Jinora was protected by Kya until Korra used Unalaq's spiritbending technique to calm the spirits down.

 into the Spirit World in order to close the Southern spirit portal.]]

Jinora spent the remainder of the day waiting with the others while Tenzin attempted to cross over to the Spirit World through meditation. After several failures, Kya pointed out that it was Jinora's destiny to guide Korra into the Spirit World. Although Tenzin deemed it too dangerous for her, Jinora managed to convince her father that she could do it. After sharing a brief hug and hearing that her father was proud of her, Jinora and Korra sat down in lotus position, opposite from one another. They meditated until Korra's eyes started to glow white and they both crossed over to the Spirit World.

Awestruck by the appearance of the Spirit World, Jinora ran off to chase a butterfly spirit, commenting that it looked like it was made of jewels. When Korra called for her help as she was being attacked by meerkat prairie dog spirits, Jinora turned back and urged the distressed Avatar to remain calm, as it was her energy that was upsetting the spirits. However, Jinora was unable to free Korra from the spirits' hold and as the meerkat prairie dog spirits began to run around them, they were both sucked through the ground. They were dropped into the water on another location, where they were instantly swallowed by another spirit who transported them to a rapidly moving stream. As they approached a fork in the water, Jinora was pushed in another direction as Korra and ended up on another grassy location. All alone and unable to determine her whereabouts, she called out for help. When Furry-Foot came to her aid, she excitedly greeted him and asked him if he knew where Korra had ended up. The spirit purred and offered Jinora to ride on his back, a suggestion she readily accepted. As they approached Wan Shi Tong's Library, Jinora initially mistook it for being an elaborate tree house, though soon recognized the building for what it truly was since her grandfather used to frequent it.

 to Wan Shi Tong, hoping to be permitted access to his library.]]

Inside the library, Jinora gazed around in awe, remarking that she could stay there forever, reading. However, she was greeted by a hostile Wan Shi Tong, who told her that the last human who said that is still in the library, and thus he no longer allowed humans in his library and demanded her to leave. Jinora reminded Wan Shi Tong of the rule that whoever offered some new knowledge for the library's collection was permitted to enter. The owl spirit brushed aside her objection saying it was an old rule and doubted the possibility that Jinora knew something he did not. The young airbender explained the inner workings of the radio, correcting the information Wan Shi Tong had received from one of his Knowledge Seekers. Although he acknowledged Jinora's information, he still refused her access and demanded her once more to leave. However, when Jinora announced herself to be the granddaughter of Avatar Aang and the companion of Avatar Korra, she was permitted access to the library, though also received the warning to not break anything.

She immediately searched the library's vast collection for information on the spirit portals' locations, though to no avail. Growing restless, she asked a nearby Knowledge Seeker for help, who instantly brought her a book about the Tree of Time. Armed with the knowledge of the portals' locations as well as the dire consequences that would befall the mortal world if Vaatu would ever be freed, Jinora wanted to continue her journey, but found herself thwarted by Wan Shi Tong and Unalaq. She was apprehended by Furry-Foot, who had turned dark, and taken to Vaatu at the Tree of Time.

 to force Korra to open the Northern spirit portal.]]

Detained by Unalaq's spiritbending, a move that threatened to destroy her soul if it was to be completed, Jinora was used to coerce Korra into opening the Northern spirit portal. Although distressed, the young airbender told Korra not to open the portal, but found herself silenced by Unalaq's dark spiritual technique. When Korra relented, Jinora was released and put into the care of Furry-Foot, who took off with her as soon as the portal was opened and a battle ensued between Korra and Unalaq, preventing her from returning to her body in the physical world.

Trapped in the Spirit World

For almost a week, Kya used her healing abilities to keep the energy in Jinora's body flowing, though her life force was slowly leaving the young airbender, placing her in mortal danger.

's demise, Jinora set out to help Korra.]]

While her body was taken care of by her aunt and grandmother, Jinora's spirit was taken to the Fog of Lost Souls, where she wandered aimlessly, until the fog spirit infected her mind and trapped her within her own darkest memory. Jinora stayed there until she was found by her father and let out of the valley where the fog spirit resided. As they left the fog, she regained consciousness, expressing her relief over seeing her father again. As they were heading toward the spirit portal to exit the Spirit World, Jinora sensed the demise of Raava and the repercussions of her disappearance for the world. Knowing Korra needed her help, she gave her father a butterfly light spirit, stating it would guide them out of the Spirit World, before departing herself.

 of Jinora brought Raava's light back into the world, saving Korra by illuminating the light spirit inside the Dark Avatar.]]

A spiritual projection of Jinora appeared during the battle between Korra's spiritual projection and the fusion of Unalaq and Vaatu known as the Dark Avatar. Surrounded by light, Jinora's spirit, also empowered by the Convergence, brought Raava back to the world by utilizing the spiritual energy she had gathered after leaving her father,DiMartino, Michael Dante; Konietzko, Bryan; Dos Santos, Joaquim & Zuckerman, Jeremy (July 1, 2014). "Light in the Dark" commentary. Book Two: Spirits Blu-ray. releasing it and casting a bright light over the Dark Avatar, interrupting his attempted corruption of Korra's projection and allowing Korra to extract Raava before purifying the Dark Avatar. After the battle was over, Jinora's spirit was brought back to the Spirit World by Korra's spiritual form, where she told her father that she would see him soon. Her spirit faded and returned to her physical body, which was resting at the White Lotus compound. She lovingly hugged her grandmother, stating that she had missed her, and told Asami, Tonraq, and Senna that they did not need to worry as Korra had saved the world.

Jinora later stood by her friends and family as Korra declared the Water Tribe Civil War to be over and the Southern Water Tribe independent. She happily and proudly listened when Korra announced that there would no longer be a separation between the mortal and the Spirit World, marking the start of a new age where humans and spirits coexisted.

Helping Korra regain her bending

 on ways to get her waterbending back.]]

Shortly after the Unalaq Crisis, Jinora accompanied her family on a trip to the Southern Water Tribe. On the way back home, however, she sensed that Korra was in trouble and sent a spiritual projection of herself ahead to discover that Korra had lost her bending due to being shot by special Equalist darts. To help the Avatar regain her waterbending, Jinora suggested Korra find spirit water in some of the jars on Air Temple Island.

While Korra later battled some mecha tanks, Jinora reappeared to her friend and advised to stand her ground in order to regain her earthbending abilities. After Korra successfully followed her advice, Jinora proceeded to tell the Avatar that she might be able to find the answers she was looking for in regards to the disappearance of her bending in the Spirit World, which Korra agreed with.

Jinora appeared to Korra again at the South Pole while the latter was battling a Triple Threat Triad member and several Equalists; she told her that attacking with anger could help her recover her firebending abilities. Soon after, she reminded Korra about her airbending training with the spinning gates to help her regain her airbending abilities.

 after the fight against Hundun had left the Avatar doubtful about the consequences of opening the spirit portals.]]

While dark spirits attacked Korra, Jinora appeared again to tell her that the old man she had encountered a while back, was the one controlling the spirits. When Korra confronted him, though was on the brink of being overwhelmed by several dark spirits, Jinora helped her to activate the Avatar State by guiding her to let everything around her go. After Korra had defeated Hundun, Jinora congratulated her. When Korra sadly noted that she had to answer for things that happened a long time ago, the young airbender consoled her, pointing out that facing the White Falls Wolfbats in the finals of the pro-bending tournament would be easy, which made the Avatar smile.

Post-Harmonic Convergence

 that she and her siblings would help guide the new airbenders.]]

In the weeks following Harmonic Convergence, however, the integration of spirits and humans began to have disastrous consequences with Republic City becoming infested with spirit vines that damaged infrastructure and caused widespread dissatisfaction among the citizens. Despite the ire of the public at Korra's decision to leave the spirit portals opened, Jinora continued to express happiness at the new coexistence. That night, Jinora was amazed when she saw her uncle Bumi airbend. When reports began emerging of people throughout the Earth Kingdom suddenly acquiring the ability to airbend, Jinora accompanied Korra and their allies on a quest to recruit the new airbenders in the hopes of reinstating the Air Nomad culture. In one village, the team met Kai, a young orphan boy who had recently discovered his airbending ability. Early into his acceptance by the team, Jinora expressed romantic feelings for Kai, blushing in his presence and offering to teach him the airbending moves she knew.

At Ba Sing Se

After the group found out that Earth Queen Hou-Ting was conscripting Ba Sing Se's airbenders into her own personal army, Jinora grew worried that Kai was among the captives. Korra assured Jinora that they would find him, it was just a matter of where to look. Upon Mako's suggesting of Lake Laogai as a potential holding place, Jinora suggested that she could get into the underground base using her spiritual projection.

's fortress underneath Lake Laogai.]]

The group made their way to Lake Laogai on Oogi and Jinora meditated at the shore, Tenzin advising her to return to her mortal form if anything went wrong. Upon projecting herself into the base, the young airbender found it to be abandoned and flooded long ago. When Korra asked Jinora where else the airbenders could be, she began to list a number of possibilities, but her father noted there was too many for them to be able to search them all in time. The Avatar followed up by asking her how she found her during Harmonic Convergence, which Jinora believed was because of their spiritual connection. As Korra suggested that the airbenders may have a connection, Jinora attempted to focus on it to find Kai. The search led her to the prison hold and into a small cell where the Dai Li was holding Kai. Happy to see him again, Jinora explained to Kai her method of finding him and asked where exactly they were before assuring him they would all be freed. Before leaving, Jinora was thanked by Kai, causing the young airbender to blush slightly. Upon reaching back above ground, she realized that the prison hold was under the Earth Queen's Temple.

 on the cheek upon finding him in Earth Queen Hou-Ting's prison.]]

Back at their home, Team Avatar discussed how they could break the airbenders out when they were surprisingly joined by Lin, who had initially come to warn Korra of the escape of four dangerous criminals. That night, the group put their plan into motion. Jinora approached two Royal Earthbender Guards, who believed she had come alone, only for her to point out that she was with the rest of the group. After overpowering the guards, they made their way to the airbenders' hold, avoiding Dai Li agents along the way. Jinora went with Bolin and Mako to find Kai at Tenzin's suggestion. When the three found his cell, Jinora ran to Kai, embracing him and kissing him on the cheek, before urging them all to move out. Shortly after they started to escape, however, they found themselves confronted by three Dai Li agents, including the sergeant, who declared that they were committing high treason, a crime punishable by death. During the ensuing battle, Jinora was captured by the sergeant's rock gloves but was promptly freed by Kai. The four ran out of the prison hold while having to dodge further attacks by the Dai Li. Bolin soon launched them onto Oogi with an earth pillar, enabling them to escape safely. The next morning, Jinora joined her father and all the freed airbenders as they left for the Northern Air Temple.

Training the new airbenders

At the Northern Air Temple, Jinora watched as Tenzin tried in vain to tell the airbenders about the story of Monk Tang Xu. She laughed at Bumi's mocking of the classes with Bum-Ju, earning her a glare from her father and prompting her to stop.

 used their staffs to observe a herd of wild flying bison near the Northern Air Temple.]]

Later, as Jinora and Kai watched a herd of wild bison, she was unsure of his suggestion to go down and try to ride them. However, she was convinced upon being told no one was around and they could get back before anyone spotted them. Using their gliders, they saw some calves; Jinora told a confused Kai they could not fly for a couple of weeks after their birth and would thus stay close to the ground. When Kai made his way down to the babies, she warned him that the mothers were protective. Seeing a mother charge toward Kai, Jinora quickly swept in on her glider and got him away from danger. After settling, Jinora was told she was an incredible airbender, to which she remarked she had been training for a while. Upon his questioning as to why she did not have her tattoos, she informed Kai that Tenzin believed she was not a master. She was further encouraged by Kai saying that she could do everything her dad could in addition to having spiritual powers. She blushed at his suggestion of her being a master.

The next morning, Jinora joined Tenzin as he led the airbenders on a ten-mile hike. During a balancing drill, she expressed her worries that he may have been too hard on them, but was dismissed. While Tenzin was talking about how airbenders shaved their heads, Kai sneaked over to Jinora, asking her if she wanted to see the baby bison again, but she shushed him, advising him to watch. Before the obstacle course, the young airbender reproached her father with her earlier concerns about pushing them too hard, but she was simply told everything was under control, concerning and annoying her.

After Tenzin's frustrations boiled over during the obstacle course, he told Jinora to take over the lessons. Because she had been designated a master, she asked Tenzin if she could get her tattoos. When asked what brought the thought on, she explained how she had talked to Kai about it, but was told no because she was a little girl. Jinora protested, saying she was just as good as him at airbending, knew all about their culture and history, and had a stronger spiritual connection. She stormed away and told him to lead his own class.

 were captured by bison rustlers after going to find the baby flying bison.]]

She made her way to a temple overlook, where she was approached by an apologetic Kai. Jinora assured him that Tenzin's outburst was not his fault while lamenting her father's lack of belief in her. At Kai's suggestion, they returned to the forest, but realized no spirits nor bison were to be found. They soon found themselves captured by bison rustlers and taken to their camp. Jinora listened in fear as their leader declared they would be sent to Ba Sing Se with the baby bison. Locked in a cage on board a truck with one of them, she demanded to know how the rustlers could steal the bison because of their endangered status. Upon being told they sold them to the Earth Queen as meat, Jinora called the leader, Ganbat, disgusting. Kai suggested she try using her spiritual projection technique, but she was not sure if she could because of the small space she was in and also lacking time and peace. She instead tried sending a message; she got a small bird spirit to appear before her and relay their situation onto Bum-Ju.

Kai got himself out, but Jinora told him to free the bison first. The camp was soon swarmed by Bumi and the airbenders, but Jinora was still trapped as Ganbat fled with the truck, leaving her to call for help. Kai pursued while Tenzin heard her cries while flying aboard Oogi. The truck was eventually stopped by the combined efforts of Tenzin, Kai, and adult bison, allowing for Jinora to be freed.

That evening, Jinora and Kai were playing with an adult bison; she was licked by it. Once Tenzin approached them, she hugged her dad and apologized for running off. Being told by him that he was too rough on her, she asked if she could get her tattoos; she was promised he would think about it. Jinora agreed to the deal before, at Kai's call, taking notice of the baby bison in flight.

The Red Lotus attacks

 get shot out of the air by P'Li's combustion attack.]]

When the Red Lotus arrived at the Northern Air Temple, Jinora went with her family in attempt to evacuate, but were intercepted by Zaheer, who forced them and the other airbenders into the temple's courtyard, where they were told they would be released as long as they cooperated. When Tenzin threw back Zaheer, Ghazan, and Ming-Hua with a blast of air, Jinora was ordered to lead the airbenders to the sky bison stables for evacuation while staying out of P'Li's line of fire lest they be bombarded with a combustion attack. Soon, however, Jinora and the group found themselves trapped in a hallway because the last part of the way to the stables was over open ground, making them easy targets for P'Li. While Kai took Daw's glider and distracted the firebender, Jinora and the others made a run for the stables. When she heard an explosion, however, she stopped running and turned around, screaming for Kai with tears in her eyes upon seeing him falling out of the sky. She was subsequently trapped at the stables as the combustion attacks had scared off the bison, leaving everyone at P'Li's mercy.

's survival and rushed to his side after being freed from the Red Lotus' captivity.]]

Jinora and the other residents of the temple were taken to a cave-complex located in the vicinity of the temple. Tied to the floor by platinum chains, she and the other captives were guarded by two Red Lotus sentries. In an attempt to find a way to escape, she used her astral projection technique to scour the area, though was unable to find help as she discovered that Korra had been captured by the Red Lotus as well. However, they managed to procure the keys to their shackles when Pema asked the guard for some water, enabling Jinora to bend his robes up and free the keys, which were safeguarded by Opal. The guards discovered their endeavor, though before they could do something, they were taken out by Team Avatar, who had come to rescue them. Jinora was relieved when she saw Kai was among them and immediately gave him a warm hug and an affectionate nudge against his shoulder. When Tonraq stated that he was going to search for Korra, Jinora became serious again and revealed that she knew the exact location of the Avatar's whereabouts, enabling Tonraq, Mako, and Bolin to find her.

As all the captives made their way outside the caves, Jinora warmly hugged her father, relieved that he was okay after his battle with the Red Lotus. When the people around her were awestruck by Zaheer's newly unlocked ability to fly, Jinora kept her head cool and realized that they had powers in numbers as it had been a long time since there had been so many airbenders in one place. She promptly gathered everyone to stand in a circle and follow her lead, creating a powerful tornado that trapped Zaheer in it, enabling Korra to grab a hold of him and slam him down on the rocks. When Korra collapsed soon after due to having been exposed too long to the Red Lotus' poison, Jinora spurred Suyin to action upon revealing that the poison was metal-based.

 was taken down, Jinora received her airbending tattoos and was anointed as a master airbender.]]

Two weeks later, after they had returned to Air Temple Island, Jinora's head was shaved and she received her mastery tattoos, becoming the youngest airbender in history to receive the honor at the age of eleven.Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game. Core Book, Version 1.0, 2022, p. 27. At a ceremony attended by a number of dignitaries, including President Raiko, Lord Zuko, and Chief Beifong, she was anointed as an airbending master, with Tenzin proclaiming that she would help lead the Air Nation in their new path bringing balance and peace to the world. After the ceremony, Jinora headed toward the docks with Tenzin, Asami, Mako, and Bolin to say goodbye to Korra, who was set to board a ship heading toward the Southern Water Tribe. She stood by her father when he urged Korra to not worry about anything other than her recovery, emphasizing that he, Jinora, and the airbenders had everything under control. As the ship departed, she waved them off.

174 AG

At some point between the three years, Jinora began a romantic relationship with Kai.

, and Meelo were tasked by Tenzin to find Korra and bring her home.]]

Together with her family, Jinora attended the grand reopening of Republic City's Central City Station, where she listened to President Raiko's speech and watched Asami cut the ribbon. Afterward, she returned to Air Temple Island together with her family, Prince Wu, Asami, Lin Beifong, Mako, and the presidential couple. During dinner, she fed Pabu, though when an Air Acolyte notified the gathered group of the arrival of a ship from the South, she stayed behind while everyone else met on the dock to meet Korra, who was scheduled to arrive. Jinora, Ikki, and Meelo were later tasked by Tenzin to track down Korra and bring her to Republic City.

Searching for Korra

The next day, Jinora and her two siblings prepared Pepper to leave on their quest. After she secured the big bag of food on the bison's saddle, Jinora jumped down to hug her father goodbye. As she released him, she told him that she had not yet been able to locate Korra by honing in on the Avatar's spiritual energy, though she was certain that she would be able to do so once they were on their way, claiming they should be able to track Korra down within a few days. She hugged her mother goodbye and seated herself atop Pepper's head, taking the reins. When their father reminded her siblings that she was in charge, Meelo denounced her authority and ordered them all to move out, prompting Jinora to sigh at his antics and merely urge Pepper to take to the sky.

's chattering, Jinora was unable to concentrate properly.]]

Stopping at a stupa atop a mountain near a village, Jinora descended Pepper and sat down to meditate behind a small man-made structure. However, her concentration was constantly interrupted by Ikki, who kept talking to her. Irritated, Jinora sent her younger sister off to go play with some resident spirits and resumed her meditation. Upon overhearing her sister tell Meelo that her "spirit powers" were broken, Jinora snapped at her siblings that she needed some quiet time to concentrate. She was unable to locate Korra, however, and the threesome continued on their quest. They eventually made their way to a small, coastal fishing town, where a hopeful Jinora walked up to Meelo after he had called on her and Ikki for having found Korra. She was disappointed upon realizing that the discovery was merely a photo of the Avatar. When the fishmonger told the siblings that he did not know where Korra had gone to after posing for his picture, Jinora was told by Meelo to start pulling her weight during their mission. As her brother stormed off, Jinora was asked by her sister if she also recalled when Meelo had been "nice and sweet", though Jinora could not remember such a time.

 as he kept on insisting that finding Korra was solely his mission.]]

The siblings continued their search into the Earth Empire, where Jinora once again berated her siblings for raising too much ruckus, disturbing her concentration. Jinora retreated into the nearby woods, where she found a clearing with a moss-covered, Air Nomad statue of an animal. She continued to meditate there until she was interrupted by a purple-mouthed, sickly looking Meelo and Poki. He offered her a bag filled with berries, which Jinora inspected and threw away after witnessing her brother and his pet throw up all the berries they had already consumed. Not having seen her sister in a while, she inquired if Meelo had encountered her on his foraging trip. When Meelo irritatedly commented that his mission was getting worse by the day as he now needed to find both the Avatar and Ikki, Jinora berated him for thinking about their quest as a solo mission, as they were supposed to find Korra as a family.

 due to working together as a team.]]

Jinora and Meelo found Ikki at an outpost of the Earth Empire. Swiftly incapacitating the two soldiers with their bending, Jinora sternly urged her sister to hurry up and leave with them. Upon learning that Ikki had an idea about where Korra may be hiding, Jinora's sense of urgency to leave only increased. Jinora guided Pepper toward the Foggy Swamp, where she tried to make a spiritual connection with Korra. Although she acknowledged that she sensed plenty of spiritual activity in the swamp, she could not feel Korra, prompting her to side with Meelo in that they should just bypass the swamp and continue their search elsewhere. As she urged Pepper to turn around, the bison was pulled down by vines from the swamp, causing them the crash land in the murky waters below. When Ikki reasoned that the vines had forced them down because they needed to be there, Jinora continued to voice her skepticism, pointing out that she still could not sense the Avatar, though her sister refuted that argument by saying that Jinora had yet to sense Korra anywhere. While Ikki and Meelo subsequently got into an argument with each other, Jinora suddenly felt Korra's presence and guided everyone toward the banyan-grove tree. Discovering Korra at its base, the three siblings soared down and enveloped the Avatar in a hug. Upon being asked how they had been able to find her, they explained that they could not have found her without working together, as Ikki revealed that Jinora had sensed her energy, to which Jinora responded that she had only been able to do that due to Ikki guiding them to the swamp, which in turn had only been possible due to Meelo driving Ikki away to find the soldiers who helped her out. After being introduced to Toph Beifong, they implored Korra to return with them as she needed to stop Kuvira who was taking over the Earth Kingdom. They all returned to Toph's dwelling, where the siblings witnessed Korra purifying herself from the residual traces of mercury in her body before departing with her on their journey home.

The fall of Zaofu

En route, Jinora asked Korra if she was certain she wanted to go to Zaofu, as Tenzin had wanted them to return to Republic City, though still she steered Pepper to the home of the Metal Clan. Arriving, they found that Kuvira's army had already made camp at the gates, though they all managed to enter the city. That night, Jinora learned that Suyin, Wei, and Wing had left the city in order to stop Kuvira themselves and urged Korra to intervene. Her inquiry became moot, however, when Kuvira announced over the city's communication system that the three had been captured. When Opal told the Avatar she needed to break them out, Jinora reminded her fellow airbender that she could not turn to violence as she had sworn an oath of nonaggression upon becoming an airbender. Jinora planned to accompany Korra and Opal at dawn to try to reason with Kuvira, though when her siblings wanted to help as well, she told them to stay behind where they would be safe.

 intervened in the one-on-one duel between Korra and Kuvira about the fate of Zaofu to save the former's life.]]

At dawn, upon hearing Korra accept Kuvira's challenge to a duel, Jinora asked if Korra was truly ready to fight the master metalbender and urged her to be careful. Her worry did not lessen while watching the fight, as Korra was being tossed around and barraged by earth- and metal-based attacks. Upon witnessing Korra fail to remain in the Avatar State, Jinora wondered what was troubling her friend, as they had gotten all the poison out of her system. When Kuvira exploited Korra's weakness and moved in to kill her, Jinora and Opal blew the army commander back with a powerful air blast. The intervention broke the peace treaty, however, and they were forced to create a large whirlwind to keep the incoming soldiers at bay. Jinora asked Opal to maintain the vortex while she used her astral projection ability to contact her siblings for help. As Meelo and Ikki arrived on Pepper, Jinora helped Opal to carry Korra on the bison's saddle and ordered her brother to take them out of there. In the air, Jinora and Ikki latched on to Opal to prevent her from diving down and help her family.

Captured by the spirit vines

Weeks later, after their return to Air Temple Island, Jinora flew up to Korra and Opal to alert them of the strange surge of energy she had felt emanating from the Spirit Wilds. Convinced something was wrong, she led the other two women on an investigation through the wilds. Although their initial search proved to be futile, Jinora remained convinced that she had felt a disturbance, wondering if something had happened to Ryu and his tour group, as they should have encountered them. She asked Korra for confirmation in regards to the strangeness of the energy around them and although the Avatar could not feel it, she did see through the vines that Kuvira was harvesting roots from the banyan-grove tree. Jinora split from the others to continue her search for Ryu, while Korra and Opal headed to City Hall to alert the president about their discovery.

 discovered the spirit vines had trapped Jinora's soul in the Spirit World.]]

Jinora eventually found a broken camera, though while she was examining the object, she noticed that one of the vines was creeping up on her and only narrowly managed to avoid being struck by using her airbending to propel herself onto a nearby roof. As more vines started to attack her, she took flight with her wingsuit, expertly maneuvering out of the way of the hostile vegetation. However, she could not outrun them completely and ended up being captured. As she was being constricted by the vines, Jinora locked on to Korra's energy and used her spiritual projection technique to alert the Avatar about her predicament. She could not contain the connection for long, however, as she was dragged away and placed in a pod that preserved her body while trapping her soul in the Spirit World. Her soul was eventually released from its confinement within a spherical force field by Korra and, as it returned to her body, the pod around her dissipated, leaving Jinora to groggily wake up in the Spirit Wilds, all covered in slime. She helped Ryu to guide all the tourists out of the wilds, where she found her father waiting for her. Warmly embracing him, Jinora told him that Korra had saved them all.

Defending Republic City

After President Raiko ordered a mandatory evacuation of Republic City due to Kuvira's imminent attack, Jinora retreated to her room with her siblings, sans Rohan, and mother to prepare their suitcases. After talking it over with her family, however, they all decided to stay, reasoning that Republic City was their city and it was going to need all the help it could get. Sharing a family hug with her father after Pema alerted him of their decision, Tenzin told Jinora, Ikki, and Meelo that they could help the other airbenders by monitoring the progress of the military of the Earth Empire from above.

 chose Jinora to be part of her airbender stealth team, together with Tenzin, Bumi, and Kai, much to Ikki and Meelo's dismay.]]

A week later, with the arrival of Kuvira's troops imminent, Jinora and the other airbenders gathered on rooftops from where they had an overview of the gathered United Forces troops and the direction from where Kuvira would arrive. She was shocked to see the approach of the Colossus and after witnessing it destroy the United Forces' battleships with the spirit energy cannon it carried, she retreated toward the Future Industries factory where the hummingbird mecha suits were being assembled. Jinora was chosen by Korra to be part of a stealth team of airbenders tasked with the kidnapping of Baatar Jr.. While Korra, Tenzin, and Bumi infiltrated Kuvira's second-in-command's airship to apprehend him, she and Kai kept guard atop the vessel. They caught the sack containing a bound and gagged Baatar Jr. when the others airbent it out of the hatch and they all returned to the Future Industries factory. She was forced to run for her life, however, when Kuvira traced Baatar Jr.'s radio call toward the factory and blew it up with her spirit energy cannon.

Jinora managed to survive the explosion and emerged from the rubble with everyone else when Bolin lifted a large piece of concrete. While Asami and Varrick attempted to adapt the prototypes of the hummingbird mecha suits in Asami's office to get them airborne, she and the other benders faced Kuvira and her army in an attempt to stop them or at the very least, slow them down. On Meelo's urging, Jinora and the other airbenders equipped themselves with balloons filled with paint. Upon reaching the Colossus, they dropped the balloons on the suit's windows, momentarily obscuring its vision and enabling the earthbenders on the ground to tie down the suit's legs. As Bolin gave the signal, Jinora and the other airbenders blasted the suit with air currents in an attempt to topple it over. The suit managed to stabilize itself, however, forcing Jinora and the others to flee when Kuvira aimed her spirit cannon at them. After Jinora checked if her father was all right, they all retreated to Asami's office, where a new plan was formed: the benders would relentlessly attack the Colossus to distract Kuvira and enable the two hummingbird mecha suits to land on the enormous machine and cut a hole in it without being crushed.

 after she was rendered unconscious by narrowly missing a beam from the spirit energy cannon.]]

When Kuvira aimed her cannon at Korra, Jinora, her airbending family, Kai, Daw, and another female airbender worked together to form a tornado in their wake and swoop down on the weaponized arm of the suit, knocking it out of balance and distorting its aim. While she soared away, however, she came within range of the cannon herself. At the last second, she was saved by Tenzin, though the proximity of the blast knocked them both unconscious and they plummeted down. Before she could fall on the ground, Jinora was saved by Ikki, who plucked her out of the sky and landed on a nearby roof.

Ultimately, their diversion worked and while Korra, Mako, Bolin, Lin, and Suyin managed to infiltrate the enormous suit, Jinora supported her father and made their way through the streets of the city with her siblings. Before they could reach a safe place, however, a wave of energy, caused by the firing of the spirit energy cannon inside Republic City's Spirit Wilds, bore down upon them and they were forced to flee inside the hall of a nearby building, where they all huddled down and Tenzin protected his children against the incoming smoke.

 for Republic City ended, Jinora hugged Korra along with everyone else.]]

As the smoke cleared out, Jinora supported her father once again and they made their way to the heart of the Spirit Wilds, where now a new spirit portal was located. Realizing Korra and Kuvira were nowhere to be found, Jinora, Team Avatar, and their allies set out to search the area for the Avatar. Jinora ventured into the wreckage of the Colossus, though sadly signaled Mako that there was no sign of Korra. She was surprised to see all the spirits return a moment later and, when Korra supported Kuvira while emerging from the spirit portal, she was happy to see her friend again. After Kuvira was handcuffed and escorted away, Jinora hugged Korra, along with the rest of Team Avatar.

Sitting between Ikki and Meelo, Jinora later attended the wedding between Varrick and Zhu Li at Air Temple Island.

Defending the spirits

 plans to build an amusement park with excursions into the Spirit World.]]

In the aftermath of Kuvira's defeat, Jinora led a group of airbenders in a meditation session at the new Republic City spirit portal. Their session was interrupted, however, by the appearance of Wonyong Keum and his construction workers, who threatened to call the police if they did not get off the land he had purchased. Refusing to leave, Jinora informed the businessman that the land was sacred as it belonged to the spirits. The heated discussion was interrupted by Korra and Asami's return from their vacation in the Spirit World, and Jinora informed the two of Wonyong's attempts to get them to vacate the premises. When Wonyong requested Korra to escort the airbenders off his property, Jinora informed her that the businessman's true intentions were to turn the area into an amusement park and build a road so he could drive "truckloads of tourists" into the Spirit World. The argument was interrupted by the dragon eel spirit, who asked Korra to close the portals lest she would be held accountable for the fate that befell the spirits, and Jinora smiled in support when Opal assured Korra that the airbenders were on her side and ready to help protect the portal. Jinora watched on in amusement as Korra, who had been threatened by Wonyong into leaving the premises, entered the Avatar State and intimidated the businessman into leaving himself, noting that she doubted he would return anytime soon.

While Wonyong did not return, Jinora and the other airbenders were attacked at the portal by the Triple Threat Triad some time later. Using her spiritual projection technique, Jinora contacted Team Avatar back on Air Temple Island and asked for help, as well as informed them of the presence of a young man fitting Tokuga's description. Jinora continued to fight off the Triple Threats, and the battle came to a quick end when Team Avatar and, much to her surprise, several angry spirits arrived and drove away the Triple Threats. As the chaos died down, Jinora was shocked to see Korra and Asami sharing a kiss. When Asami confirmed that she and Korra were now a couple, Jinora told them that it was wonderful, happy about their relationship.

 were attacked by Spirit World thorns.]]

Jinora, her family, and some other members of the new Air Nation accompanied Korra on her trip to negotiate with the spirits and encourage them that she was still on their side. However, as the airbenders and Korra flew into the spirit portal on Oogi's back, they realized that a massive amount of the land around the portal had been destroyed. Korra was surprised, saying that the land had not been destroyed when she had been here only briefly before on her trip with Asami. Kai questioned aloud who had been strong enough to destroy the spirits realm, and Jinora, meditating on the floor, replied that it could only have been the spirits themselves. Korra said that they had probably done it to protect themselves and as a warning.

When Ikki touched a small dead flower, the flower sprung up long stems with thorns, which began attacking the airbenders, and Jinora grabbed a glider and swooped in to save Kai. The airbenders and Korra hopped onto Oogi, and they all flew out of the portal together. However, as they left, they noticed General Iroh and the United Forces entering the grounds around the spirit portal, and setting up a metal barricade. Korra demanded the troops withdraw, to which Iroh responded that he only sought peace. Tenzin responded that if that was his desire, he should leave the portal to the Air Nation. Iroh considered the idea, then disagreed, saying he had his orders, and that if they had any issues to take it up with President Raiko.

' presence at the spirit portal, discussed the matter with her family at the dinner table.]]

As Jinora and her family had dinner that night, Jinora angrily remarked that the United Forces had no right to be occupying the land around the portal. While Tenzin and Pema suggested that the group wait Raiko out until he changed his mind or was voted out of office, Jinora protested saying that would involve waiting too long and that they needed to act immediately. Meelo agreed and suggested that they march on the portal, an idea Tenzin agreed with and concretized as a peace march, which Jinora enthusiastically offered to participate in.

Jinora and the rest of the Air Nation spent the next day protesting the spirit portal's occupation. After hours of protesting, Raiko and the United Forces came in as Raiko commanded waterbenders to directly hose the airbenders down. Jinora was among several of the protestors who was hit with a hose, and she stood behind Tenzin who covered her with his arms to protect her, telling the airbenders to not retaliate no matter what. Jinora coughed as the waterbenders let up, and Tenzin warned the others of what may be coming next. The barricade around the spirit portal was broken by Zhu Li, her film crew, and other protesters there to support the airbenders. The protestors all then began to chant together, demanding that the portal be left in peace and in the public's hands.

During the protest, Tokuga flew an airship across the portal, demanding that the United Forces leave, with threat of poison gas. Jinora and the other airbenders helped the civilians evacuate from the portal area. After the civilians left, Jinora and the airbenders began to bend the air around the poison gas in order to contain it so that the civilians within Republic City would be safe.

Three weeks later, Jinora attended a party for the announcement of the results of the presidential election. When Zhu Li was announced as the winner, Jinora, her family, and other members of the new Air Nation stood together as they listened to Zhu Li's acceptance speech. Some time later, Jinora and Ikki got into a fight after the latter accidentally tore a scroll. Tenzin explained the Air Nomad way of conflict mediation to his daughters by telling him a story about his teenage years; however, this only led to more fighting over the proper way to "cleanse the air" among the children.

Some time later in the Earth Kingdom, Jinora temporarily lost her connection to the Spirit World, which she confessed to Korra and Asami while she was trying to help them get rid of a swarm of puffball spirits, who were stealing their biplane. She admitted that it was frustrating to take so much effort into leading the new airbenders through their new life while some of them did not take her seriously. However, after encouraging words from both girls, the airbender was able to perform her spiritual projection technique and communicate with the creatures, effectively sending them away.

Personality

.]]

Jinora was a quietly reserved, intelligent, studious girl, much different from her younger, more rambunctious siblings. Out of Tenzin and Pema's four children, she was the calmest and most mature. However, she did like to tease her siblings from time to time, causing Ikki to perceive her as "mean and bossy". Although usually polite, she had a sardonic sense of humor and was known to make sassy remarks, such as when she told Tenzin that she would make no promises regarding her teenage years and when she called out Unalaq on his morality as a father when he questioned Tenzin's.

Jinora was very inquisitive and highly driven by thirst for knowledge. As such, she usually spent much of her time reading books and educating herself on history, science, folklore, and spirituality. Her inquisitive nature also drove her to understand other people, as she showed interest in Korra's love life. Her accumulation of vast knowledge was the source of her confidence, which allowed her to feel more prepared in the face of anxious situations, such as when she encountered Wan Shi Tong, whom Jinora was able to outwit by using her knowledge of history and technology, and taking advantage of the spirit's isolation from the material world since the Hundred Year War. In the same encounter, Jinora displayed pride and a somewhat conceited attitude, although not vain, when lecturing Wan Shi Tong. This attitude led her sister Ikki to perceive her as "above it all".

Jinora also displayed a great amount of courage, as she was willing to exchange her soul in favor of the world's well-being when she was being used as leverage to coerce Korra into opening the Northern spirit portal, as well as prolong the separation of her soul and body in order to aid the world by finding Raava. As Jinora grew older, in no small part due to Kai's influence on her, she began to show an assertive side to her when standing up for herself and her beliefs, sometimes even to the point of being rebellious. She argued with Tenzin when he stated that she was too young and inexperienced to receive her airbending tattoos, and also refused to leave the Republic City spirit portal after Wonyong Keum planned to exploit it.

Although an intellectual, Jinora was much more interested in abstract and theoretical knowledge. This natural detachment from the Physical World has increased the girl's spiritual awareness and intuitive thinking, which allowed her to surpass Tenzin, whose mindset was more empirical and literal than his daughter's, to become the spiritual master he always aspired to be. Jinora's intuitive mindset allowed her to quickly grasp the nature of the spirits, strengthening her affinity to them and their respect for her. She was initially concerned about her father's reaction to it upon learning of Tenzin's insecurity about his own lack of spiritual affinity, fearing he was angry with her. She quickly intuited that the spirits were being affected by Korra's emotions when guiding her in the Spirit World.

After Harmonic Convergence created new airbenders, Jinora began to take a leadership role, assisting Tenzin in training them, and even coordinating them against Zaheer. These experiences became very important to her sense of self and her identity as a spiritual expert, so much so that not being taken seriously by some of them despite her efforts interfered with her ability to meditate into the Spirit World and commune with spirits for a while, until Asami and Korra both shared how their similar struggles led to a better understanding of themselves.

Abilities

Airbending

 later helped to maintain.]]

Jinora was an airbending master who displayed an excellent variety of skills. This was evident when Korra earthbent Jinora and Ikki into the air and she used airbending to glide down, and later when she helped fend off Equalists when Air Temple Island came under attack. She was also proficient in the use of a glider, able to fly at a rapid pace and carrying someone along with her, be it on her back or held by her legs, and mastered the air scooter, a move invented by her late paternal grandfather, Aang. Her skills in combat and natural agility allowed her to go toe-to-toe with even the most agile of Equalist chi-blockers. Her airbending abilities also supplemented her fighting skills by giving her the element of surprise so that she may gain the first strike, as well as enhanced mobility. She was able to create a powerful air blast, whirlwind, and air swipe. Her overall proficiency and knowledge of the airbending skills and teachings ultimately made her father give her the blue arrow tattoos, the symbol of a true master.

Spiritual projection

 technique to call for Korra's help when she was attacked by the spirit vines.]]

Jinora could also combine her airbending with her spiritual powers to project her spirit out of her body, enabling her to phase through objects and travel to another location in a matter of seconds. By locking on to people's energy, she could use this technique to track people down or call for help when she was in a dire situation. To utilize the technique and maintain the projection, Jinora had to be able to focus, which required a peaceful and quiet environment.

Other skills

Much like her grandfather Aang, Jinora possessed a strong natural affinity with spirits and spiritual-related matters. She was able to see spirits that hide their presence from others, detach her spirit from her body to move about freely in the material world, and guide people into the Spirit World. Similarly, she could sense the energy presence of other individuals and track them through it over great distances, as well as that of a place.

Being well-read, Jinora had a great general knowledge, ranging from historic facts to the workings of recent technology and the habits of fauna.

Relatives

Appearances

Book Two: Spirits (神靈)

Book Three: Change (易)

Book Four: Balance (平衡)

Avatar Legends comics

Graphic novels

Avatar Legends games

* The Legend of Korra (video game)

Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game

* Core Book
}}

Trivia

* The attire Jinora wore in Books One through Three is similar to the common clothing of young airbenders, which Aang wore in Books One and Two of Avatar: The Last Airbender.
* Jinorasa was the name of a lesser-known Buddhist writer and poet. The name is a Sanskrit word (जिनोरस) that means "essence of victory", derived from jīna (जीन), meaning "a victor". Coincidentally, Jinora is also a well-read girl, having encyclopedic knowledge on various subjects, such as being able to identify a fire ferret on the spot and recite its natural habitat.
* Jinora and her siblings never met their grandfather, Aang.
* Jinora was the first female airbender to be born after the Air Nomad Genocide and the first airbender known to have a nonbender parent.
* Unlike her parents and siblings, Jinora had brown eyes.
* Like her father, Jinora was more serious and mellow, whereas Ikki and Meelo were more hyper and playful.
* Jinora had a close relationship with her aunt, Kya.
* Jinora was the first female airbending master in 171 years and the second airbending master since the Air Nomad Genocide.
* Jinora is the second known person capable of spiritual projection after Mangal, and is the only person ever shown to perform the technique.
* Jinora was responsible for saving the Avatar Spirit on two separate occasions: the first being when she helped Korra find Raava during Harmonic Convergence and the second being when she led the members of the Air Nation in creating a large tornado with the intention of stopping Zaheer from killing Korra in the Avatar State.
* Jinora and Princess Yue were the inspiration for The Destined playbook in Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game.Sargeant, Alexi. "I can confirm that some of the thought behind the Destined was "What if Jinora was a PC?" ... "Yue was the other major inspiration!" Magpie Games Discord server (March 15, 2022).

References

}}

ar:جينورا
ca:Jinora
de:Jinora
es:Jinora
fi:Jinora
fr:Jinora
he:ג'ינורה
id:Jinora
ms:Jinora
nl:Jinora
pl:Jinora
pt-br:Jinora
ru:Джинора
Category:A to Z
Category:Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game characters
Category:Airbenders
Category:Air Nation characters
Category:Characters
Category:Comics characters
Category:Graphic novel characters
Category:Legend of Korra characters
Category:Main characters (Legend of Korra)
Category:Major graphic novel characters (Legend of Korra)
Category:Minor characters (Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game)
Category:Turf Wars characters
Category:United Republic characters