Ty Lee

}}

* Hand-to-hand combat

* Circus acrobat (formerly)
* Kyoshi Warrior

* High class Fire Nation citizen
* Imprisoned Fire Nation traitor (amnestied)
* Kyoshi Warrior

* Fire Nation
* Fire Nation circus (formerly)
* Kyoshi Warriors
* Royal Fire Academy for Girls (formerly)
* Ty sisters

* Vivian Vencer (in Quest for Balance)
}}Ty Lee was a cheerful and energetic girl who hailed from the Fire Nation. As the daughter of a nobleman, she attended the Royal Fire Academy for Girls with her friends, Princess Azula and Mai. Growing up, Ty Lee dealt with six sisters who shared identical appearances with her. This caused her to feel a loss of individuality and led her to have a longing to be a unique, recognizable person, and a desire for attention from other people. Because of this, after she matured, she ran away from her home and joined a Fire Nation circus, becoming a skilled acrobatic performer and gaining more personal attention.

Ty Lee was a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, often utilizing chi-blocking, a unique form of martial arts that targets pressure points located in the human body. By striking these, she was able to disrupt an individual's chi flow and temporarily paralyze them, thereby also preventing the victim from bending for a period of time. Mai and Ty Lee were recruited by Princess Azula to hunt down and capture Prince Zuko and Iroh, and later Avatar Aang and his friends.

Mai later betrayed Azula to save Zuko's life, and when the infuriated princess retaliated, Ty Lee defended Mai by paralyzing Azula, which led to her imprisonment. While in prison, she met the Kyoshi Warriors for a second time and befriended them. In return for teaching them how to chi-block, they allowed her to join their group. Upon their release at the end of the Hundred Year War, Ty Lee adopted their makeup and clothes, effectively becoming part of a matched set once again, though this time with the reassurance that she could become a unique individual again whenever she wanted, simply by removing her makeup and uniform.

History

Early life

Born into a Fire Nation noble family, Ty Lee was one of seven identical sisters, the others being Ty Lin, Ty Lat, Ty Lao, Ty Liu, Ty Lum, and Ty Woo. In order to preserve a sense of individuality, the sisters each chose a different hobby and agreed to stay away from each other so their parents could not compare them with one another. Ty Lee claimed acrobatics for herself, even though her sisters were also skilled in this regard. Despite that, Ty Lee still felt like she was part of a matched set and constantly had to compete for attention, often feeling neglected by her surroundings.

In her early youth, she attended the prestigious Royal Fire Academy for Girls where she met Azula. Ty Lee soon befriended the princess and often accompanied her, though she generally displayed a much more cheerful attitude than Azula's other associates such as Hong and Peijing. As a result of being part of Azula's circle, Ty Lee met Mai when the latter tried to gain the trust of the princess. Ty Lee and Mai eventually developed a close friendship despite their different personalities.

.]]

Due to her close association with the Fire Nation princess, Ty Lee was permitted to play with Mai and Azula at the royal palace. During one of those outings, Ty Lee demonstrated her superior acrobatic skills by performing a series of cartwheels and somersaults, which Azula proved unable to mimic. As a result, Ty Lee was pushed to the ground by a jealous Azula, who subsequently laughed at her. Despite her indignant reaction to the princess' behavior, Ty Lee happily went along with Azula's plan to humiliate Zuko, on whom Mai had a crush. After Azula orchestrated a situation in which Mai and Zuko fell into a fountain, Ty Lee teased the pair about being "cute" together. She, Azula, and Mai also played hide-and-seek at the palace, but Azula always won due to knowing secret passageways in the complex. Eventually, Ty Lee and Mai discovered this secret.

Spring 100 AG

A new task

After Ty Lee ran away to join the circus, Azula tracked her down and attempted to recruit her to assist with the capture of the now-fugitives, Zuko and Iroh. Ty Lee, however, was happy and at peace with her lifestyle, claiming that her "aura [had] never been pinker!" Azula, in an ostensibly friendly gesture, informed Ty Lee that she would attend that night's performance before leaving, though the acrobat seemed rather uneasy and nervous about the announcement.

 into joining her in her search for Zuko and Iroh.]]

During the performance, Ty Lee performed a tightrope act for the private audience consisting of the Fire Nation princess. While she was balancing on one hand high above the ground, Azula ordered Shuzumu, the ringmaster, to set the net beneath Ty Lee's tightrope ablaze and release an assortment of dangerous animals, increasing the peril for Ty Lee should she fall. Ty Lee watched from above, her smile becoming an expression of terror as she remained in Azula's gaze.

Afterward, when Azula told her she was looking forward to the next day's show, Ty Lee informed Azula that she would not be performing, due to the fact that "the universe was giving [her] strong hints that it was time for a career change." She subsequently accompanied the princess to Fire Nation-occupied Omashu, where they reunited with Mai; the latter quickly agreed to join their new team. When her old friend asked her why she traveled with Azula as she had once described the circus as her calling, Ty Lee euphemistically noted that "Azula called a little louder." Ty Lee subsequently accompanied Mai and Azula during a hostage trade to exchange King Bumi for Tom-Tom, Mai's younger brother. In the battle that ensued after Mai called off the trade per Azula's suggestion, Ty Lee handled herself well, using chi-blocking to disable Katara's waterbending. She and Mai were eventually defeated when Appa knocked them off the platform on which they were fighting.

 to act less extreme during the Battle in New Ozai.]]

After the escape of the Avatar, Azula initially sought to enforce stability in Omashu and ordered Ty Lee and Mai to help train the local garrison. Afterward, the princess told her comrades that she suspected "traitors" among the city guards due to the low arrest rates, resulting in her beginning investigations. Ty Lee was initially enthusiastic about these tasks, but soon became disquieted at Azula's cruel treatment of both the local Fire Nation soldiers as well as the native civilians. Indeed, the princess' high-handed and draconian ways alienated the local civilians to the extent that both Mai and Ty Lee unsuccessfully tried to convince Azula to back down. The situation ultimately escalated into an unsuccessful uprising by Omashu's people, with Ty Lee helping to suppress it despite her misgivings. Azula's team subsequently left Omashu to pursue both Team Avatar as well as Zuko and Iroh, with the latter having been branded traitors to the Fire Nation. As they were starting their hunt, Ty Lee gently teased Mai once again about her affections for Zuko, noting that it would be "interesting" for Mai to see him again.

Pursuing Team Avatar

 by the Nan Shan River, Ty Lee jumped from tree to tree to get Katara.]]

Ty Lee, Mai, and Azula pursued Aang and his companions after their confrontation at Omashu. When Sokka and Katara split from the Avatar, Ty Lee and Mai were charged with the task of tracking down the siblings. The two of them overwhelmed their targets easily but were promptly sent flying into a river by an air blast from Appa. Once out of the water, Ty Lee asked Mai if she too believed that Sokka was "kind of cute".

Ty Lee, Mai, and Azula oversaw the attempt to breach the walls of the Earth Kingdom capital, Ba Sing Se. When the Terra Team was sent out to slow the drill, Azula ordered Mai and Ty Lee to deal with them. With the help of her companion, Ty Lee made quick work of the team, blocking their chi and rendering them disabled. Later, when Aang, Katara, and Sokka were found sabotaging the drill, Ty Lee once again acknowledged Sokka particularly, this time sending him a flirtatious look, to which Sokka responded with some light flirting of his own. When Azula sent Mai and Ty Lee after the fleeing siblings, Ty Lee followed them into the slurry waste pipeline. However, Katara and Toph bent the water and rock mixture, using it to plug up the waste tunnel while Ty Lee was trapped in it, thus thwarting her attempt to catch them. During this, Katara was presumably embittered toward Ty Lee because of her ability to impair bending and aggressively insulted Ty Lee, calling her a "circus freak". After the drill was destroyed, Ty Lee was launched out of the pipeline by the build-up of pressure and slammed into a rock platform, but was more or less unharmed.

Fall of Ba Sing Se

 was before their duel during the Coup of Ba Sing Se.]]

After the defeat of the drill, Ty Lee played a minor role and only reappeared when helping Azula attack Suki and the other Kyoshi Warriors. During the battle, she showed concern over her physical appearance when she remarked that she and her friends were more attractive than the warriors they were fighting.

After Team Avatar departed from Ba Sing Se, Earth King Kuei gave an audience to three impostor Kyoshi Warriors, who were later revealed to be Azula, Mai, and Ty Lee in disguise. The girls used their false identities to aid their infiltration into the Earth Kingdom city, fooling both the Earth King and Team Avatar. Eventually, however, Katara rushed in with important news. She stated that Zuko and Iroh had entered the city, to which Azula responded that she would be sure to let the Earth King know. Katara quickly saw her gold eyes, recognizing them as Azula's, and prepared to attack the group. However, Ty Lee suddenly attacked Katara with a chi-block, therefore allowing the trio to easily capture her.

After a successful coup against the government of the Earth Kingdom orchestrated by Azula, Ty Lee remarked playfully how cute Sokka was. While fighting Sokka, she claimed it was as if they were dancing. Ty Lee was last seen trying to teach the Earth King's bear, Bosco, how to do a handstand. While in the process of doing this, Toph earthbent her hands and feet to the floor, rendering her immobile.

Summer 100 AG

Ember Island

Ty Lee and her friends vacationed for a short time at Lo and Li's beach house on Ember Island. At the beach, Ty Lee soon found herself being approached by a boy who helped her unpack and stood over her to provide her with shade. Not long after, another boy came with a seashell to present to Ty Lee as a gift. In no time at all, Ty Lee was surrounded by many admirers. During a kuai ball match, she attracted the attention of two boys, Chan and Ruon-Jian, who invited Ty Lee and Mai, and more reluctantly, Azula and Zuko, to a party that night.

During the party, Ty Lee was surrounded by the boys from the beach and many others and was forced to paralyze them with chi-blocking to escape the crowd. Seeing this, Azula called Ty Lee a "tease" and said that none of the boys really cared about her. Ty Lee immediately started crying, clearly upset, and Azula hurriedly apologized and confided that she said those things because she was actually a little jealous of Ty Lee's popularity. Azula asked Ty Lee how to make boys like her and Ty Lee admitted that boys might be intimidated by Azula. Ty Lee advised her friend to act as if she was interested in whatever the boy was saying and to laugh frequently. Zuko was later kicked out of the party and Mai, Azula, and Ty Lee came down to the beach to find Zuko. After starting a campfire, Zuko mocked Ty Lee as a "circus freak". She subsequently revealed tearfully that she had six sisters who looked identical to her and that she had gone to the circus to have individuality. Because of her experiences, "circus freak" was a term she regarded as a compliment. Mai replied that the reason Ty Lee craved so much attention was because she received so little as a child.

The group subsequently began to open up to one another. With all their secrets revealed, the heaviness between the four seemed to vanish. Ty Lee commented that she would remember that night forever and that Lo and Li were correct about the beach's ability to reveal people's true selves. To celebrate their revelations, Azula decided on a fitting end to their night – the four later headed back to Chan's party, trashing the house and leaving it a ransacked mess. Together, the four of them forged their own memory of the place, uniting as friends for the first time in years.

Captured at the Boiling Rock

 to save Mai.]]

Ty Lee accompanied Azula when the latter traveled to Boiling Rock maximum-security prison, eagerly confronting Sokka, Suki, Zuko, Hakoda, and Chit Sang, a firebending prisoner, during their attempted escape. Suki, well aware of Ty Lee's chi-blocking techniques by this point, took great care to evade her attacks. When the guards were about to cut the line on the gondola in which Suki, Hakoda, Sokka, and Zuko were escaping, Ty Lee and Azula, who were dueling the escapees, jumped onto a passing gondola. Immediately after this, however, Ty Lee wore an unsure and anxious look on her face.

Back at the prison, Ty Lee witnessed as Mai double-crossed the Fire Nation guards, saving the escapees before the line was cut. After some tension and an argument between Azula and Mai, the two prepared to attack each other. However, as Azula was getting ready to attack Mai, Ty Lee turned against her as well, attacking the firebender by blocking her chi and paralyzing her to protect Mai. Ty Lee quickly urged her dumbfounded friend to leave the scene, but they were arrested before they were able to flee. Azula ordered the guards to lock the two away and "let them rot", not wanting to be in their presence ever again as punishment for their unfaithfulness.

Ty Lee's actions would severely weaken Azula's mental state, playing a part in her eventual defeat and nervous breakdown at the hands of Zuko and Katara.

Release from prison

, Ty Lee joined the Kyoshi Warriors to help rebuild the world.]]

Ty Lee and Mai were locked up at another prison, where they met the rest of the Kyoshi Warriors, until the defeat of Fire Lord Ozai during the coming of Sozin's Comet. While in prison, Ty Lee befriended her old enemies and gave them some lessons in chi-blocking, which led to their bonding. After they were let out of prison, Ty Lee felt that the world was broken due to the war and wanted to help rebuild it, so she decided to join the Kyoshi Warriors. Together with her new comrades, she appeared on Fire Lord Zuko's coronation day in a Kyoshi Warrior uniform, elated to be a part of the warrior order. Sokka became hysterical, initially believing that Ty Lee was impersonating a Kyoshi Warrior again, but they explained their bonding while in prison, which proved to be enough to calm him.

101 AG

 served as Zuko's bodyguards.]]

A year after the end of the Hundred Year War, Mai asked Ty Lee and the rest of the Kyoshi Warriors to protect the Fire Nation Royal Palace after an attempt by Kori to murder Fire Lord Zuko. The first night they were standing guard, Zuko woke up in the middle of the night and went outside. Suki and Ty Lee assured him that it had been quiet all night. Zuko apologized, saying that he did trust the Kyoshi Warriors as the best guardsmen in the world, to which Ty Lee cheerfully corrected him that they were "guardswomen".

102 AG

Guarding Azula

 Azula to protect Zuko.]]

After the resolution of the conflict in Yu Dao, Ty Lee and Suki were tasked to keep an eye on Azula and Ozai when they were placed into adjoining cells in order to facilitate conversation about Ursa's whereabouts. When Zuko entered Azula's cell and was subsequently attacked by his sister, Ty Lee did not hesitate to chi-block her former friend, incapacitating her from further action. Azula recognized her and started asking nonsensically how "she", referring to Ursa, managed to turn the fear Ty Lee and Mai had for her, though Ty Lee brushed the accusation aside, saying that she was not making any sense. After they all left the cell as requested, Ty Lee admitted that Azula was wrong, as she had never stopped fearing Azula.

Ty Lee later greeted Team Avatar when they arrived at the Fire Nation Royal Palace and saw them off the next day as they took Zuko and Azula to Hira'a to track down Ursa. She stayed behind with Suki to act as guards to Iroh, who agreed to assume temporary control of the Fire Nation.

Family reunion

While still residing at the Fire Nation Capital, Ty Lee began to feel down for reasons unbeknownst to her, causing her to skip one of the Kyoshi Warriors' training drills. Being approached by Toph, she admitted that she needed a break as nothing felt right to her anymore. Upon revealing that her aura was off, she was dragged off to a Fire Nation circus, which she quickly recognized as her former workplace after seeing Shuzumu. When Ty Lee greeted her former employer, he wondered what she was doing there, considering the show was scheduled to start five minutes later, and pushed her into a nearby tent, ordering her to get dressed.

 about their defining traits.]]

As the man left and Toph entered, Ty Lee was surprised to find her six identical sisters inside the tent. After introducing them to Toph, the Ty sisters, ecstatic to see each other again, embraced. Despite the joyful reunion, Ty Lee became upset to learn that her sisters all joined the circus, performing as the "Flying Ty Sisters", and argued that acrobatics had always been her defining trait, something they had promised to stay away from so their parents would not be enticed to compare them to each other. An argument quickly ensued, however, when Ty Liu and Ty Woo each claimed that Ty Lee had stolen the hobby from them. As more joined in, an unnerved Ty Lee stormed out of the tent. Despite her intention to leave, Toph managed to convince her to stay and attend the platypus bear show with her.

During the performance, Ty Lee figured out that she had been down because being part of the Kyoshi Warriors was just like her home life as part of a matched set, several people looking and acting the same. Not wanting to be in that situation again, she decided to quit the order. As the announcer introduced her sisters as the next act, Ty Lee grew annoyed and quickly left the tent with Toph. On their way out, Toph noticed two men plotting to burn down the circus. While the earthbender challenged the firebending assailant, Ty Lee attacked the other man. Despite kicking the large man directly in the chest, the attack left him unfazed. Before he could do anything, however, Ty Lee was saved by her sisters, who defeated him together. Thanking them for their help, Ty Lee hugged her siblings, commenting that it was a good thing they had become acrobats after all.

.]]

Upon returning to the capital, Ty Lee redonned her Kyoshi Warrior outfit, much to Suki's excitement, who had been told by Toph that she was quitting the team. Ty Lee responded by saying that hanging out with her sisters made her realize there were advantages to being part of a matched set, as some problems were too big to tackle alone. When Suki asked why she did not stay with her family then, Ty Lee answered that the warriors were her sisters too and added that she did not always have to match with them as she could take off her makeup whenever she wanted.

Conspiracy against Fire Lord Zuko

 that she had had a hard time maintaining a peaceful aura, as she was concerned over Azula returning to punish them for their betrayal.]]

Some time after Zuko left the capital city to search for his mother, Ty Lee decided to visit Mai at her aunt Mura's flower shop. Upon her arrival, she was pleasantly surprised to meet Michi and Tom-Tom as well, and greeted all of them with her usual enthusiasm. After hugging Mai to the latter's slight annoyance, Ty Lee took her old friend to have some "girl talk" at a nearby teashop. When the two got there, however, Ty Lee became a bit nervous, prompting Mai to inquire whether she expected someone. Ty Lee informed her that she had trouble to maintain a "peaceful aura" because Zuko had freed Azula, and a part of her feared that the princess might appear and "punish" them for their betrayal at any moment.

To improve the mood, Ty Lee then decided to switch topics, and asked Mai about her romantic life. In this way, she learned that her friend was dating Kei Lo to get information on the insurgent New Ozai Society in hopes of protecting Zuko. Ty Lee was left somewhat confused about this revelation, especially when Kei Lo arrived at the teashop and Mai called him "babe". He proceeded to tell them that he had learned about a planned ambush on the Fire Lord. Ty Lee expressed mixed feelings during and after the meeting about Mai and Kei Lo's relationship, as she deceived her boyfriend despite the latter having a "good aura". Ty Lee went so far as to tell Mai that she was "selling [her] soul", but her concerns and reservations were brushed aside.

 using chi-blocking.]]

Ty Lee and Mai subsequently told Suki about the planned ambush, and prepared everything for the safe return of Zuko and his family. It was decided to set up a decoy caravan that would travel the regular way from the harbor to Royal Caldera City, whereas the Fire Lord took a secret route through the woods. Ty Lee, Mai, another Kyoshi Warrior, and a group of Fire Nation soldiers were stationed at the official pathway up to Royal Caldera City. While they were waiting for an attack by the New Ozai Society, Ty Lee told Mai that she loved being a Kyoshi Warrior, but was not fond of the group's getup. Meanwhile, Mai expressed doubts about Kei Lo's truthfulness, as the pathway was too fortified for an ambush; Ty Lee countered that he had not been the one who was "acting completely fake" at the teashop. At that moment, a group of insurgents actually launched an attack against the decoy caravan, prompting Ty Lee to exclaim that she was right about Kei Lo telling the truth. A battle ensued during which Ty Lee saved the life of a young soldier. The insurgents were quickly defeated, but the group subsequently saw Suki's distress flare, meaning that Zuko's secret convoy had also been attacked. Ty Lee and her comrades used a hot air balloon to rush to the site of the ambush. She consequently helped to defeat the remaining New Ozai Society militants.

In the next days, Ty Lee was among the Kyoshi Warriors who patrolled the palace. She eventually heard that alleged dark spirits, the Kemurikage, had begun to terrorize the capital's population. Distressed, she approached Suki during one of their nightly patrols, and argued that the Kyoshi Warriors had to help. Suki responded to the negative, stating that they should wait until Zuko had returned with the Avatar. Unconvinced, Ty Lee stated that the Kemurikage had already kidnapped Mai's brother and might take more people, but Suki urged caution.

, but her former friend fended off the attack.]]

A few hours later, the Kemurikage infiltrated the palace and took Zuko's younger sister, Kiyi. When the Fire Lord noticed, he alerted the Kyoshi Warriors and Aang. They caught up with the kidnappers on the roofs, where Ty Lee attacked one of the figures who responded by using smoke grenades. While the Kemurikage made their escape, the Avatar blasted the smoke away, and the group resumed the chase. They managed to corner one of the kidnappers who turned out to be Azula. The princess promptly attacked using lightning, and Ty Lee joined the fight. Her attempts to chi-block her former friend failed, however, and Azula was able to escape.

Soon after, Ty Lee was present when Mai came to Zuko to express her condolence at Kiyi's kidnapping. She asked how they were sure that one of the Kemurikage was Azula, whereupon Ty Lee responded that the person had not just bent lightning; their entire fighting style and their way to move were identical to Azula's. When Zuko ordered his security forces to enforce draconian measures in the hope of catching Azula, he upset Aang. After a short dispute, the Fire Lord requested Suki and Ty Lee to escort the Avatar out. When Aang expressed his frustration at Zuko's stubbornness, Ty Lee expressed her sympathy for his position.

's secret passageways to Aang and Suki.]]

The three then decided to investigate, hoping to find clues about the kidnappers' whereabouts. After some time searching, Ty Lee remembered the secret passageways Azula had used as a child, and showed one of its entrances on the roof to Suki and Aang. The three promptly alerted Zuko. When the Avatar, the Fire Lord, Mai, and Kei Lo entered the secret passageway, Ty Lee and Suki stayed behind to guard the palace. After the group had driven off Azula's team and freed the kidnapped children, Ty Lee stood guard as Zuko was holding a speech in the capital, announcing that he was sorry for his mistakes in handling the Kemurikage crisis and vowing to do better in the future.

Hunting Azula and academy conflict

Some time after the Kemurikage crisis, Ty Lee became involved in the hunt for Azula. The Kyoshi Warrior and several Domestic Forces officers planned to confront them at a grain distribution center, knowing that the Fire Warriors planned to attack it as part of a plot to sabotage the Fire Nation's food supply. Ty Lee had the grain replaced with empty crates, while several Domestic Forces officers hid themselves from Azula's acolytes, giving the illusion of there only being two tired guards on duty. Ty Lee brought the officers a fresh pot of tea, noting that they might need their auras fortified that night.

 at the granary, Ty Lee challenged Azula.]]

Just at that very moment, Azula set the crates alight and blew up the building, causing Ty Lee to order the Domestic Forces officers to spring their trap. She and the other guards clashed with the Fire Warriors, with the Kyoshi Warrior battling her opponents until Chiyou intervened. Ty Lee quickly chi-blocked her, and warded off an attempt by Zirin to rescue the incapacitated rebel. As Azula and her remaining followers fled into the nearby forest, the princess set a large fire to stop the pursuers. As Azula escaped, Ty Lee called after her, threateningly declaring that she would find her. Chiyou was later freed from her captivity by Zirin and another Fire Warrior, although they had all broken from Azula's leadership by this point.

Taking a break from tracking Azula, Ty Lee later visited the Royal Fire Academy for Girls upon hearing Mai had become a teacher at their old school. She was accompanied by Zuko during the visit, and complimented her two friends when they resolved an argument through discussion. As Mai showed them her new workplace, the trio ran into two suspicious men. These turned out to be rogue Dai Li agents sent by Pearl, a former headmistress of the Royal Fire Academy, to assassinate the current headmistress Shihan for failing to uphold her traditional values. A fight erupted, and the three friends managed to defeat the earthbenders as well as rescue Shihan. Afterward, Ty Lee talked with Mai about her new position as a teacher, expressing joy at her friend having found a new calling.

Later life

At one point, Ty Lee joined Suki and the other Kyoshi Warriors in Cranefish Town, where she was vitally important in dealing with the conflict between benders and nonbenders in the burgeoning industrial hub. While off-duty, she continually visited her friends Mai and Zuko. Her family was also deeply important to her, and she often visited her noble parents and her six sisters.Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game. Wan Shi Tong's Adventure Guide, Version 1.0, 2022, p. 37.

Ty Lee was still an active Kyoshi Warrior by 124 AG.

Personality

Ty Lee was bubbly and outgoing, yet slightly airheaded. She was a direct contrast to Azula's cruelty and Mai's constant torpor. She took delight in her acrobatic abilities, never missing an opportunity to show them off, and often craved attention and recognition, a result of her upbringing as part of an identical set of seven sisters. These attention issues also caused her to be a bit of a flirt, which is why, according to Mai, she needed the affection of multiple boyfriends.

Ty Lee showed a strong sense of loyalty to her friends, Mai and Azula. Despite her obvious differences from Mai, she had a deep respect for her, and they often made an effective fighting duo, teaming up numerous times against their enemies. Ever since childhood, Ty Lee also considered Azula as a friend, but as she got older, that loyalty seemed to have been out of fear of the princess. When she first refused Azula's request to join her search for the traitorous Zuko, Azula persuaded her by endangering her life during a circus performance. For some time, Ty Lee never disobeyed Azula's orders. However, her breaking point came at the Boiling Rock. Ty Lee was completely willing to help Azula recapture Zuko and other escaping prisoners, showing no hesitation. However, when the rope holding Zuko's gondola was about to be cut on the Warden's orders, which would send Zuko along with several prisoners and friends plummeting to their deaths, Ty Lee showed concern while Azula softly smiled next to her. After Mai helped Zuko and his friends escape the prison, Azula threatened her. Fearing for Mai's safety in the face of Azula's terrible rage, Ty Lee attacked Azula, finally conquering her own fears and taking a stand against her friend after months of obedience. Over the next years, Ty Lee became more self-confident, though she maintained her deeply empathic attitude.

Ty Lee usually did not to hold grudges against her enemies despite their encounters on the battlefield: She bonded with the Kyoshi Warriors, for whose confinement she was partially responsible, establishing a fairly strong friendship with the group while they were imprisoned together; she showed affection for Sokka, despite the enmity between her allies and Team Avatar; and she made amends with her sisters despite their differences and disagreements. However, Ty Lee held a grudge regarding Azula after the breakdown of their friendship and displayed no empathy toward her.

Ty Lee displayed great affection toward animals. In Ba Sing Se, she taught Bosco acrobatic moves before Toph earthbent her to the ground.

Ty Lee sometimes came off as superficial, as seen when she affirmed her beauty to a Kyoshi Warrior and when she warned her friends about the risk of getting acne from the negative energy surrounding their serious conversation.

Abilities

Agility

.]]

Ty Lee was extraordinarily agile. Even as a child, she was able to execute mid-air somersaults and cartwheels that surpassed even Azula's. Her agility continued to improve with age and she was commonly seen walking around in a headstance on just her fingers. She later developed remarkable acrobatic abilities, which allowed her to join the Fire Nation circus and perform high-wire acts with balance and grace. People traveled for miles to see her perform. Because of this, she was fast and agile in battle, able to outmaneuver almost any opponent she came across and jump exceptionally high and far, even from a stationary position. Her abilities allowed her to dodge the attacks of dozens of powerful earthbenders, who were unable to land a hit on her. She was also limber; able to twist, bend, and contort herself into positions nearly impossible for an ordinary person to achieve. These abilities also granted her impressive parkour and free-running skills, allowing her to scale almost any surface or terrain quickly and squeeze through most barriers and small spaces with noticeable ease.

Chi-blocking

 Sokka's and Toph's chi.]]

Another of Ty Lee's defining abilities was her mastery of pressure-point-striking martial arts, otherwise known as "chi-blocking". With her extensive knowledge of the human body, she could strike sequences of pressure points, immobilizing her enemies to various degrees. She had the ability to paralyze a single body part or an opponent's entire body. This technique allowed her to block certain chi paths in benders to compromise their abilities. This made her especially dangerous to benders who relied solely on their bending and possessed no secondary fighting skills. Combined with her extraordinary agility, she was able to defeat dozens of powerful earthbenders within seconds. However, if her target had faced her before or was expecting her attacks, the effectiveness of her chi-blocking decreased as her opponent took measures to prevent her from using the technique; Suki was able to avoid her attacks at the Boiling Rock, and Katara and Sokka were also able to effectively counter her when facing her again.

Relationships

Appearances

Book Three: Fire (火)

Avatar Legends comics

Book Two: Earth (土)

Book Three: Fire (火)

Other comics

Graphic novels

Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game

* Core Book
* Wan Shi Tong's Adventure Guide

Avatar Legends games

* Avatar: The Last Airbender – The Burning Earth
* Avatar: The Last Airbender – Into the Inferno
* Avatar: Generations
* Avatar: The Last Airbender: Quest for Balance
}}

Trivia

* Ty Lee is the first known character to have more than one identical sibling, as she has six identical sisters.
* In the Mandarin Chinese dub, Ty Lee's name is written as , meaning "calm and beautiful".
* Ty Lee appeared to have a crush on Sokka, as she mentioned that Sokka was cute. When she, Mai and Azula found Aang, Sokka and Katara, she said, "Azula, you were right — it is the Avatar ... and friends", directing the last part of the comment toward Sokka as her look grew more flirtatious. Later, when confronting Sokka in the Earth King's throne room, she cheerfully described their fight as dancing.
* Though arrested at the Boiling Rock, Ty Lee was not held there, as she bonded with the Kyoshi Warriors in prison and only Suki was held at the Boiling Rock.
* Ty Lee was the second known outsider to join the Kyoshi Warriors, Sokka being the first. She was also the first known Fire Nation native to join them.
* Ty Lee was one of the few natives of the Fire Nation that did not have black hair or golden eyes.
* Avatar Extras described Ty Lee as the Avatar version of a Valley Girl.Avatar Extras for "The Chase" on Nicktoons Network.
* In the non-canonical "School Time Shipping" episode, Ty Lee was shown to have some attraction to Haru.
* Ty Lee went to the circus because she did not feel different among her six identical sisters. Ironically, by the end of the series, she joined the Kyoshi Warriors, who all dress and look alike, differentiating only by each girl having their own personal hair accessory.
* Ty Lee's chi-blocking fighting style is similar in principle to Gentle Fist, the fighting style of the Hyūga clan from the popular manga/anime series Naruto; both use martial arts to block a person's internal flow of energy, though in Naruto this is referred to as chakra rather than chi.
* Ty Lee was the only person in the series to whom Azula ever apologized.
* Ty Lee's pink, acrobatic outfit symbolized her bubbly demeanor and optimistic outlook on life.Avatar: The Last Airbender—The Art of the Animated Series, page 92.

Notes

References

}}
ar:تاي لي
de:Ty Lee
es:Ty Lee
fi:Ty Lee
fr:Ty Lee
he:טאי לי
id:Ty Lee
nl:Ty Lee
pl:Ty Lee
pt-br:Ty Lee
ru:Тай Ли
tr:Ty Lee

Category:A to Z
Category:Ashes of the Academy characters
Category:Avatar: Generations characters
Category:Avatar: The Last Airbender characters
Category:Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game characters
Category:Azula in the Spirit Temple characters
Category:Characters
Category:Chi-blockers
Category:Comics characters
Category:Fire Nation characters
Category:Graphic novel characters
Category:Kyoshi Warriors
Category:Major characters (Avatar: The Last Airbender)
Category:Major characters (Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game)
Category:Major graphic novel characters (Avatar: The Last Airbender)
Category:Royal Fire Academy for Girls
Category:Smoke and Shadow characters
Category:Soldiers
Category:Teachers and instructors
Category:The Promise characters
Category:The Search characters