Yue

:This article is about the character in Avatar: The Last Airbender. For the character in Netflix's live-action series, see . For other similar uses, see Yue (disambiguation).

}}

* Sokka (boyfriend)

* Princess of the Northern Water Tribe (formerly)
* Tribal Chief's advisor (formerly)

* Water Tribe

* Grace Woosley (in Avatar: Generations and Quest for Balance)
}}Yue was a princess of the Northern Water Tribe, the daughter of Chief Arnook, and one of his advisors. After the death of Tui during the Fire Nation's Siege of the North, she sacrificed her life to replace it and shared its position as the Moon Spirit.

History

Early life

Yue was born in the Northern Water Tribe's capital of Agna Qel'a to Chief Arnook and his wife, the daughter of a tribal chieftain. Yue had an unknown illness as an infant, being still and quiet as though asleep, so her parents feared she would die. As her condition was critical and the tribe's healers, including Yagoda, could not cure her, Arnook prayed to the Moon Spirit in desperation and placed her in the tribe's Spirit Oasis. The Moon Spirit gifted her with part of its own life force, saving her life and turning her hair white as a side effect. Thus, her mother named her Yue, for the moon.

Yue was raised to follow her tribe's traditions and customs, instilling her with a deep respect for her people. While she had genuine love for them, she also felt stifled under the pressure to uphold their values. Sometime prior to Team Avatar's arrival at the Northern Water Tribe, it was arranged that Yue would marry a young, high-ranking warrior named Hahn. He carved a betrothal necklace for her to mark their engagement, but she did not really love him and consented to the marriage only out of respect for her nation.

Meeting Team Avatar

Upon arriving at the Northern Water Tribe, Sokka was smitten with Yue, taken by her beauty at first sight. He first engaged in conversation with the young princess during the joint celebration of the Avatar Aang's arrival and her sixteenth birthday, in which she was seated along with her father and Master Pakku.

After he awkwardly flirted with her, Yue and Sokka soon began to arrange meetings. These included riding on Appa and taking walks together around Agna Qel'a. Although affection budded between the two, she was bound in an arranged marriage to Hahn, who had more love for her high status than toward her, boasting once to Sokka that "she [came] with the most perks". The two teenagers came to realize their love for each other, but she could not bear to continue their meetings because they conflicted so strongly with her responsibilities to her tribe. Sokka eventually became angered when she insisted that being together was "wrong" and that it was her duty to marry Hahn for her people, to which Sokka replied that she was not marrying her people.

During Admiral Zhao's siege of Agna Qel'a, Sokka was ordered by Arnook to act as Yue's bodyguard, noticing how their love persisted. Yue led Aang and Katara to the Spirit Oasis, helping him to enter the Spirit World. When Aang had been captured by Zuko, Yue accompanied Katara and Sokka as they tracked the two of them down on Appa.

, Yue, as a spirit, kissed Sokka goodbye.]]

Upon their return to the Spirit Oasis, Yue and Team Avatar were confronted by Zhao, who fatally struck the Moon Spirit's mortal form, leaving all waterbenders powerless without the moon's influence. Appearing on scene, Iroh saw that Yue had been touched by the Moon Spirit, which reminded her how her life was saved by Tui as a newborn. Once again acting dutifully to her tribe, Yue sacrificed herself to give back the life that the Moon had given her. This was against Sokka's wishes, but the young warrior did not stop her in the end. She placed her hands onto the fish, closed her eyes, and died in his arms. Her spirit appeared before Sokka when her physical body vanished from his arms. Yue whispered and swore that she would always be with him before the two shared a final kiss, and vanished completely.

As the Moon Spirit

Having "restored" Tui and merged with the latter,Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game. Core Book, Version 1.0, 2022, p. 21. Yue took the role of La's counterpart and partner.Avatar: The Last Airbender (Magic: The Gathering), "Yue, the Moon Spirit" card (default version). Yet she initially retained much of her old personality as a spirit, and began to watch over the entire world. In particular, she sought to protect and aid the people of the Water Tribes. To her chagrin, she thus became the subject of worship in her new role. She also followed the continued adventures of Team Avatar.

's aid when he needed to reconnect with his past lives.]]

After Aang was struck down by Princess Azula's lightning during the Coup of Ba Sing Se, Yue was able to provide more tangible assistance to Team Avatar. She took it upon herself to meet the Avatar in the Spirit World, informed him of the damage that had taken place to the Avatar Spirit, and explained how to return to his body. She further instructed him to seek out the past four Avatars while avoiding Koh, the Face Stealer.Escape from the Spirit World online game. Upon his eventual awakening and crisis over his failures which resulted in attempting to fight against the Fire Nation alone, Yue appeared to Aang once more to encourage him not to lose hope and to continue fighting the war, as he had already saved the world once. She subsequently assisted him in forming a massive wave of water to ride toward the island where Roku's temple once stood, utilizing her powers as the Moon Spirit.

's partner.]]

At one point during Team Avatar's journey through the Fire Nation, Sokka reacted with anger at Toph's suggestion that the Moon Spirit might be harming people, declaring that the Moon Spirit was "a gentle, loving lady who rules the skies with compassion and lunar goodness". Thanks to her overview of the world, Yue knew of Sokka's words and found his description of her humorous.

Legacy

Yue's sacrifice was honored by the Northern Water Tribe. For example, the tribe developed special cakes made from roots and seeds of the Spirit Oasis which were to be consumed to both remember her life as well as her current role as the Moon Spirit.Avatar: The Last Airbender Cookbook: Official Recipes from the Four Nations, p. 49. Her sacrifice was also honored by the United Republic of Nations, who named the bay connecting Republic City to the Mo Ce Sea Yue Bay.

Personality

.]]

Yue was a remarkably kind, sweet, and gentle girl with a sense of humor. She offered hope to others even in crucial times, including a despaired Aang. She was courageous enough to sacrifice her own life to save the Moon Spirit, a feat that not only saved her tribe but the world.

Yue had a deep sense of loyalty and duty to her tribe. This is evident through her willingness to enter an arranged marriage with Hahn despite her affections for Sokka, and her choice to sacrifice her life to bring the Moon Spirit back. Her sense of duty and her spiritual nature were influenced by her upbringing in the Northern Water Tribe and the circumstances of her birth and ill-health as a child.

As the Moon Spirit, Yue initially retained much of her old personality, remaining playful, contemplative, and merciful. She was humble for a great spirit; when interacting with mortals at one point after her ascension, she asked them to just call her Yue due to not being used to the "whole worship-thing".

Abilities

.]]

Waterbending

Although she did not possess any waterbending ability during her life, Yue took over the Moon Spirit's abilities and became a waterbenderBasco, Dante (host), Varney, Janet (host), Giancarlo Volpe (guest). (February 2, 2024). "Secrets from the Vault: Young Love and Familiar Faces". Avatar: Braving the Elements. Episode 104.5. Apple Podcasts. capable of Avatar-level techniques. She can generate massive tidal waves, enlarging Aang's own in order to safely carry him to shore, and possesses great healing abilities.

Other skills

During her mortal life, Yue was very spiritual due to the upbringing as tribal princess and the circumstances of her birth. Despite her mythological knowledge and her affinity towards the spirits, she was unfamiliar with the Avatar's spiritual power, being visibly concerned Aang was in danger the moment he meditated into the Spirit World.

Relationships

Relatives

Appearances

Book Two: Earth (土)

Escape from the Spirit World

* "Prelude"

Book Three: Fire (火)

Avatar Legends games

* Avatar: Generations
* Avatar: The Last Airbender: Quest for Balance

Avatar Legends books

* I Am Sokka
}}

Trivia

* "Yue" () means "moon" in Mandarin Chinese. She was one of the few people belonging to the Water Tribe whose name did not have an "uh" sound.
* In Chinese slang "white moonlight" () means a pure unobtainable first love, which fits what Yue became to Sokka after her death.
* Yue's appearance as the Moon Spirit is very similar to that of Chang'e (), the Goddess of the Moon in Chinese mythology.
** As the incarnation of the Moon Spirit, Yue wears a Pibo (), or Tenne (天衣, てんね) in Japanese, much like Chang'e. This halo-like scarf of gauze, a ribbon-like strip of narrow, ornamental and floating cloth, is often depicted on deities and divine beings, denoting them as "divine".
* After seeing Angela Mueller's initial design for Yue, Aaron Ehasz requested that her hair color be changed from a dark color to a silvery white, in order to further Yue's connection to the moon.DiMartino, Michael Dante; Konietzko, Bryan & Ehasz, Aaron (September 19, 2006). "The Waterbending Master" commentary. Book 1: Water, Volume 5 DVD.
* Yue was the only known person to have life given to them by a spirit.
* Aside from the elderly, Yue was the only white-haired character in the series.
* After Zhao killed the Moon Spirit, everything turned gray except for her eyes which remained blue, showing the life force of Tui inside of her.
* Yue's betrothal necklace vanished after becoming the Moon Spirit.
* Yue and Jinora were the inspiration for The Destined playbook in Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game.Sargeant, Alexi. "I can confirm that some of the thought behind the Destined was "What if Jinora was a PC?" ... "Yue was the other major inspiration!" Magpie Games Discord server (March 15, 2022).

References

}}

See also

* in '

de:Yue
es:Yue
fi:Yue
fr:Yue
he:יואה
id:Yue
nl:Yue
pl:Yue
pt-br:Yue
ru:Юи
uk:Юї

Category:A to Z
Category:Avatar: Generations characters
Category:Avatar: The Last Airbender characters
Category:Characters
Category:Healers
Category:Major characters (Avatar: The Last Airbender)
Category:Northern Water Tribe characters
Category:Spirit World
Category:Spirits
Category:Water Tribe characters
Category:Waterbenders